Title: Optimizing Iceberg Table Layouts at Scale: A Multi-Objective Approach
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gjmg8aPJeIk
Upload date: 20250430
Video ID: Gjmg8aPJeIk

=== Description ===

#icebergSummit 2025 breakout session delivered by Sumedh Sakdeo, #LinkedIn, and Jesus Camacho Rodriguez, #Microsoft.

Session Description:
Managing the data layout of over 100K #ApacheIceberg tables at scale introduces significant challenges in balancing compaction costs with storage efficiency and query performance improvements. This talk delves into the challenges of automated data layout reorganization, presenting it as a multi-objective optimization problem. Our approach focuses on simultaneously optimizing conflicting objectives: maximizing the reduction of small file counts, minimizing compaction compute costs, and enhancing query performance by reducing the number of files scanned during queries.
 
Attendees will gain insights into how we evaluate and rank tables based on these objectives, identifying the top-K tables within a data reorganization budget to achieve the greatest impact. We will share valuable insights from LinkedIn's production deployment of OpenHouse, an open source control plane for managing Iceberg tables, along with results from synthetic benchmarks using LST-bench. This session provides a detailed exploration of performance improvements, operational trade-offs, and practical strategies for large-scale Iceberg table optimization.

=== Transcript ===

Thank you everyone for joining the talk. Um today myself, Sumid and Jesus uh we're going to talk about optimizing iceberg table layouts at scale. Um little bit about my background. I work at LinkedIn and uh I uh work on openhouse which is an open-source control plane for managing iceberg tables uh at scale. uh been working on this problem statement for over three and a half years uh trying to take LinkedIn's exabyte scale data lake to iceberg a well-managed iceberg offering with openhouse um I'll give it to Jesus uh who will introduce himself and kick us off all right thanks um uh yeah my name is Jesus I'm part of Microsoft I work on uh fabric data warehouse uh but when we did this collaboration this work um uh I was part of gray systems lab gsl which is the uh applied research group at at Azure data. Um, so with that, let's uh let's get uh started. Um, so if you've worked with with iceber or uh other table formats for that matter, chances are you've run into into some of these issues, right? Storage fragmentation, uh slow queries due to uh skew or small files, uh jobs that hit uh unexpected bottlenecks and and many others. And these aren't necessarily new type of problems. Uh but in modern data links uh they show up in in much harder ways because now you have uh many engines uh many users and and lots of concurrent jobs all interacting with the same shared data sets and and infrastructure right um adding multi-tenency adding uh unpredictable access patterns and and possibly other factors and and suddenly even what you consider uh uh simple simple problems uh become a a constant uh uh challenge. Now uh one solution to this is to try uh manual optimization. Uh but soon you realize that since modern data links are uh so dynamic and complex uh manual optimization just doesn't cut it. It doesn't scale. We can rely on someone hand optimizing uh uh partitions or compacting files on a schedule or or anything along those lines. So uh what you need to do is moving towards autonomous data services systems that are observant, predictive and and proactive and we'll help you with these uh tasks and in a broader sense uh we laid out this type of of vision for assure data uh in a few years ago in the paper that is uh referenced in the in the slide. Um that vision applies across data infrastructure in general uh not just legs. Uh but in this case we want you to apply to data lakes specifically right. Uh so once you decide to go in that direction the question is uh where do we start? Um and together with our colleagues at linking uh we decided to look into data layout optimization. So data layout issues, things like small files, skewed partitions, uh poor sort order, uh form a category of problems that degrade performance and increase costs in the in the lake. Uh these are problems that show up both across cloud and onrem environments and they will compound as as the systems scale, right? More data, more jobs, more more chart. And that's why we thought that uh layout optimization was a strong area to begin applying these uh autonomous techniques. Uh since the end result should have brought a measurable impact uh across the the whole stack. Um so with that this is what we are going to cover today. Uh we'll start by looking at how the uh small file problem that is one of the challenges within data layout optimization category uh shows up in practice at linking. Uh then we'll introduce autoco comp that is our automated compaction system. Uh we'll share results from both real deployments at linking and synthetic benchmarks that uh we run to to gain further insights and and finally we'll talk about what's next and and the broader challenges that we think are are worth tackling. Um so with that summed you want to take it away. Thanks Jesus. Um yeah so at LinkedIn we are managing tens of thousands of iceberg tables with openhouse. I think last time I checked it was about 50,000 tables and we plan to grow to 100,000 tables by end of this year. And one of the things that we ran into when we were scaling our deployment was proliferation of small data files in iceberg tables. This was not just impacting application reliability and performance. But given that we are using HDFS, it has limits on it has limits on how many files a name node can host. We started hitting scalability bottlenecks on HDFS as well. So this motivated us to look into this problem statement. Now let's talk about the origination of the small files. Some of you might have already experienced it uh firsthand but on the left side it's a very simple spark application or some data frame trying to write to an iceberg table. Now depending upon how you have configured your spark session there are bunch of configurations that can drastically change the way data gets laid out on your storage. Let's take that first example of shuffle partitions. You set it to 200, it will create 200 shuffle partitions, 200 tasks, 200 output files irrespective of data size that you are trying to write. And this is pretty common when you're doing wide transformations like group by repartitioning. The second one is default par parallelism. Now we want to make everything embarrassingly parallel. But what this means is setting this to 100 would generate 100 output files irrespective of data size. And we saw this in practice when somebody was trying to do a narrow transformation which is just a mapper only writes direct writes to storage and they were trying to write 3 GB of data with thousand parallelism. What that means is the files were 3 megabytes in size and then there were downstream implications of that. Finally max partition bytes is another uh configuration in spark that you can tune. What it allows you to do is it reads in smaller chunks and then when you comes when time comes to write back those chunks if the developer is not careful with the coales or repartitioning then they would end up writing 64 megabyte files and at LinkedIn we have tried to normalize the file size to be about 512 megabytes so that we have a good trade-off between um the performance of the queries and also the storage scalability that we are dealing with. Similarly, iceberg table property also exposes this. So as you can see there are bunch of these knobs and then the end user is expected to like make them work when they are actually writing some business application. So that's that was one of the scenarios we are seeing the origination. Now then other class of origination is coming from genuine use cases where like for example for streaming rights you want to have very low injection latencies but it's not practical to have like file size that are rightly uh rightly sized at the time of rights. Similarly, Trino will make trade-offs. It'll have unpredictable number of files because it's trading off query efficiency comparing to making sure everything is right sized. And finally, bringing iceberg into your lakehouse will exacerbate your amount of storage footprint because iceberg has its own right amplification because of versioning uh that it supports. But not all these small files are a mistake, right? Sometimes it's a tear off. Most data engineers optimize for job success and runtime which means they can uh they they are like focused on getting their application done instead of like having to focus on the long-term health of their tables. Defaults spark says that we have certain defaults that uh for all the configurations that we looked at but one size does not fit all and finally lack of visibility. So there's no good tooling built around a feedback loop between the rights done by the job and the downstream impact of those writes on table storage and query health. Devs often don't see the query pain much later weeks or months and can't trace it back to the right job that actually generated those small files. And there is rarely tooling built to understand the file size distribution, metata growth and when is the right time to do the compaction. So in the beginning everything looks fine right jobs are succeeding dashboards are green but under the surface something is quietly building up right you don't notice it at first just a few more files here and there couple of retries timeouts and then there is a thundering herd problem one day your query starts slowing down they crawl and next day they fail and your costs are up your tables are bloated so when the intent original intent of the right job was to run as fast as they can uh throw more partitions to the spark so it can run faster. The impact of it is on cost, reliability on performance. So what does iceberg do to solve this problem? So iceberg has this neat spark action that allows you to rewrite data files. Basically it's merging multiple small files into large files. We all know this uh process called compaction. But what iceberg doesn't do today and uh what we are trying to bridge that gap is addressing some of these questions. So who's responsible for calling the rewrite data files API? Is it the the writer job or is it some background process? How much compute budget do you have available to do the compaction? What are the candidate tables for compaction and schedule when you are managing a data lake house which has 100,000 iceberg tables, right? And if you are actually doing rewrite data files to do compaction is that sufficient or you could add a bit more to that whole process like for example sorting. So those are the kind of things that are still unanswered and our work uh partially uh tries to answer them and then there is a road map that we would like to discuss with the community. So with this context in mind, we framed this problem statement that how do we perform a costbenefit analysis to select top K tables out of the all the 100,000 tables that you have for compaction ensuring that they fit within a fixed resource budget that you have dedicated to uh your compaction jobs. So we frame this as a multiobjective optimization problem where we are trying to optimize multiple objectives which often have conflicting goals. Cost and gain are two conflicting goals. Often sometimes if you want to get more gain you have to pay more cost. But here we want to maximize our gain in terms of reducing the small file count while minimizing the total cost of compaction. When you start framing the problem in this way, what you come up with some kind of a selection criteria and that's what we talk about in like how do you select the top K tables that you want to compact and then you start looking at what are the trade-offs. Should I compact a table which is massive and has lot of small files but is very expensive compact or should I compact a table which is small and hence cheap to compact or should I compact a table which has a high churn rate which means like I have a writer which is churning uh data every day and then if I compact it my compaction efforts are undone immediately when the writer job runs next or table D which is like not often queried so I might get some storage benefits but I may not see the same benefits on query performance gains. So it's it's about trade-offs and that's why we framed it as a multi-objective optimization problem and autocomp is uh a solution to this problem which we'll talk about next. So automatic compaction uh of uh at scale was one of the goals that we uh we intended to achieve in our first version. The code is open source. It's in uh it's in this repo github.com LinkedIn openhouse and specifically for the first iteration of data layout optimization as part of autocom we wanted to optimize these two objectives we wanted to maximize the small file count reduction and we wanted to minimize the cost of doing compaction in terms of requirements. The way we saw uh how um autocom should evolve is we wanted the functional requirements to for autocom to work at a fine granularity. Now I have been talking about topk tables but it could be might as well top table partitions. So you could rank table partitions and then like pick them for compaction. Then we wanted autocom to have a cost aware compaction strategy because going through all the tables and then compacting them would would be really really costly at scale. And finally we wanted to make sure it runs on a periodic schedule. Um and uh yeah so for the non-functional requirements we wanted it to be extensible. So right now we are just doing simple compaction but our uh vision is to like extend it to do sorting zordering all those other data layout optimizations when they make sense. Uh and finally like when you talk about this uh when you treat something as an optimization problem and you have to deal with trade-offs you want to be able to explain easily like what you are how you're making decisions we we wanted to stay away from ML using ML to have that answer because we wanted some kind of an explanability and hence we just uh went with some simple uh optimization uh algorithms that we uh that we have implemented and of course we wanted to build this in a crossplatform compatible way so that it's not just specific to openhouse catalog but can work with any other um iceberg catalog. So putting this um autocomp into uh u an end toend workflow we followed the framework ODA which is stands for observe orient decide and act. So first we observe all the candidates in uh the various table and table partition granularity. For each candidate we'll pull statistics from iceBook system tables and metrics that we collect as part of our openhouse deployment. We orient uh these uh uh metrics, these statistics and candidates to calculate traits and the traits are essentially think of them as scores that we'll assign to each table or a table partition and finally when we have to decide it we'll just rank all the uh all the tables with their scores and then pick top K to fit within our budget our compute budget that we have allocated for compaction and then we actually act on that compact We actually call that rewrite data file API which is in the last step. And this feedback loop is very important because then this allows us to iterate dynamically as things change in your lakehouse workloads change. This feedback loop allows us to be like bit more dynamic. Putting this into um how it's actually uh uh done. So on the left side you see you have like hundreds of thousands of like iceberg tables. They have their data metadata statistics. The first thing that we do is we compute two threads. So uh rewinding we said we're trying to optimize the file count reduction objective and the compaction maximize or minimize the compaction cost. So we estimate how much file counts we will reduce by compacting a certain table and we also estimate how much cost it will be to compact those tables from a compute GB hour standpoint. Now when once we have both these traits we normalize them because both of them have a different scale. So we normalize them on a single scale using a simple minmax normalization technique and then we scalarize them to compute a score using weighted sum uh scalarization that allows us to compute a score for every candidate that we are dealing with. And finally we have scores for every candidate. We rank them. We pick topk under the max uh compaction budget. So on the right side you will see only those tables that are being picked for compaction. Um moving on to the uh evaluation section before I uh jump into the the actual numbers that we we have. So this is the system that is deployed at LinkedIn. This is called openhouse. Uh we've been working at on this for over three and a half years now. And uh openhouse uh is that exposes that manage table API to the query engines so that any uh query engine like spark trino in future flink can interface with uh it is uh essentially a catalog implementation another catalog implementation of iceberg. Um but in addition to catalog it essentially has some of the maintenance services that we want to run on a schedule so that our end users don't have to worry about them. end users who are adopting iceberg and openhouse. And on the left side we have a bunch of like generic data management services like retention, replication of iceberg tables and DLO which is what we are talking about today that will allow us to like optimize uh uh the layout of uh uh the iceberg tables. So we put autocom to work at LinkedIn um sometime I guess in October uh last year and uh okay sounds good so yeah so we started looking at uh the data and the way we visualized it was we said okay let's plot a file size distribution histogram so on the x-axis you will see the buckets are different file sizes and on the y-axis you will see how much percentage of files fall into those buckets. So the orange bar is before we had any kind of compaction. So as you can see the file size distribution is heavily skewed towards small files which are smaller than 128 megabytes. And then at some point we ran into situations where some of the tables got into a really bloated state that I was talking about and they could not um um the queries would not complete. So we picked those tables and we said that okay we're going to take these tables because they are highly sensitive and we're going to run the rewrite data file API on schedule. That's what we call manual compaction. So as you can see after uh two months of running manual compaction we saw the the dark blue uh bar we saw the file size distribution change and it started moving shifting right which is what we want. We wanted all of the file size to be closer to 512 megabytes. So we started the we started seeing that distribution shift. Then in a month uh we started observing even manual compaction the results and we saw that there was not much change in it. And why is that? Because we we had a very predictable uh pattern for those tables. We didn't get much ROI by compacting the same tables on the same schedule. And that was we had been doing at at LinkedIn we have been doing compaction for I don't know more than five years now and our algorithms have been no we have to compact all the tables at a certain fixed schedule and we we saw this and we realized that okay that kind of a model doesn't really like get us the maximum ROI that we could we could leverage and we had been thinking about autoco compaction because we wanted to roll out autoco compaction for not just those couple of tables but uh across all uh the entire uh uh warehouse deployment and when we deployed autocomp in the fourth month we saw started seeing even better uh shifting right uh on the distribution part this is another way to look at uh the data so uh this is over the last 12 months um x-axis is the months and y axis is the normalized values for file count and our deployment size which is uh like in pabytes. So as you can see before the fourth month our the rate at which our file count was growing was much faster than our deployment size and u and and the the moment we started uh uh doing manual compaction we started seeing some benefits of it. But the real benefit came when we enabled autoco compaction and you can see the the drop in the ninth month between 8 and 10 uh on the auto compaction side. So the other impact of this is on storage file system operations. This uh results in how many file opens do you have on your storage as part of your query. And the when we plot this again on the same scale of months of openhouse deployments and comparing the manual and the auto compaction you can see on the month four there is a drastic drop in the file file system operations. Now we were able to reason about it because that one gigantic table had tens of millions of files where the spark job was trying to read them and then you had the HDFS client timing out doing retries causing a thundering her problem and then that there was a drastic drop and the moment we started doing that uh the compaction for just that table was manually identified as part of our on call. We did the compaction and then we saw a drastic drop and we saw a similar trend uh with a manual compaction and and we continue to see this um the file system operations specifically around file access count or scanned files during your query changes drastically as you do compaction and it has impact on your storage costs, your storage reliability and so on. Now this is one of uh an interesting one because this is something we are still iterating on. So how does all this compaction at scale impact your workload metrics? So we picked a scanheavy workload that runs daily, scans tens of pabytes of data and we tried to plot this and we see a very high correlation between workload characteristic for that particular workload and file count and you see this sawtooth kind of like a sinocidal wave because our compaction is not running daily. Our compaction is running at at at a periodic boundaries. it is ranking tables that should be uh picked up for compaction picking those top tables and then doing the compaction. So you see the uh uh the the the normalized values for all these uh uh characteristic like file scanned, query cost, query time going up and the moment compaction uh runs going down. So this is interesting um observation uh which uh uh which we thought was interesting to share but uh it's it's a really hard problem to uh explain the impact of compaction on the workload characteristics and that's something we wanted to uh do and that's where like uh Jesus is going to talk about how we simulated this in a synthetic benchmarks and show the numbers. Thanks uh thanks. Um okay, I'll continue and I will talk now about the evaluation uh using synthetic uh workloads. Um so like ST was saying in addition to the real world impact at linking, we also run synthetic benchmarks because there are things that are just hard to evaluate in in production, right? Especially when there is a lot of interplay between systems, components, workloads and and so on. So what we did here is that we mirror a linking deployment running on azure. Uh so you can see there that you'll have your spark and iceber uh deployment. Uh we also deployed uh openhouse uh on on kubernetes using the uh terraform scripts that are provided by by the project. And in order to run the workloads what we use is uh LST bench. So LSTbench is a benchmarking tool uh for uh uh table formats that uh we develop at at Microsoft and we integrated with CAB. So CAB is uh stands for cloud analytic benchmark. Um what they did here is that they took um a snow set that are a set of traces of cluster utilization of a snowflake uh uh clusters and then what they do is to mimic the load of those clusters using open benchmarks in this case uh TPCH. Uh so we took that we did that integration and then the end result is that you can run diverse concurrent workloads in your uh on your on your engine. You'll have some of them are you know constant load. It could be like a dashboard. Uh some of them are periodic like hourly jobs. Uh you have short bars someone that you know goes to their laptop their desktop they want to run a few interactive queries or also you can have you can have this kind of large bars uh maintenance jobs like compaction. Um the data in this case for these experiments was stored in in ADLS that is the u data lake offering of Azure. Um, and one key takeaway uh here is that all these projects that you see there, everything that you see there is uh open source. So you can go out there and and try it yourself. And I'm going to um highlight the specific aspect that um again was kind of more difficult uh as Sume was pointing out uh to see at linking right that is query performance. Uh so this is a kind of a busy slide but uh let me walk you through through it. Okay. Um so in each of the charts in the x-axxis what you see is the experiment time right so we are running the experiment for five hours um and what you see on the uh y-axis is execution time for the queries that were executed in that bucket um and you see basically it's a a candlestick you have like minimum uh uh 25th percentile median 75th percentile and max uh that's what you see over there now if we go horizontally on the top you have read only queries. So your selected statements and at the bottom you have read write queries in this case inserts and and deletes. Um and then we go with the colors. Uh left hand side no compaction at all. Uh in the middle you have our uh uh autoco comp uh with a multi-objective optimization uh running at the table granularity uh with a top 10. So the the k is fixed to 10. And then finally on the right hand side you see hybrid approach. So you'll run on tables and partitions and the case is set to uh to 500. Um so two important things I think to uh observe here is that obviously you can see after the second third hour uh execution times get faster as the experiment progresses uh when we're running compaction. Uh but maybe even more uh importantly uh the variance you can see that it goes down right the size of that candlestick uh which means that the performance is more predictable which is something that end users uh really like from from from the system right um so yeah I mean we have been discussing mostly compactions in terms of storage efficiency but as you can see here it has a clear and and significant impact on on query performance as And with that let me move to kind of next steps and and what we see as as open challenges. So uh first of all when we uh look only at autoco comp in isolation um was showing this this uh slide right uh I think there are other factors uh that we can also take into account when we are making these these decisions and these trade-offs between cost and gain right. Uh so things that uh uh that we're looking at is uh for instance maximize query performance gain in terms of gain on or in terms of cost. Uh taking into into account as well the uh operational operational cost. Uh and again there is not one size that fits all. Uh so there will be different different trade-offs and one thing that is exciting also here is to see how uh we are going to balance between all these different factors. Right? Um but now if you take a step back and you talk a little bit more about the long-term vision uh what we see is kind of a modular data layout optimization engine. Uh something that uh can reason about layout holistically and and adapt as as your workloads change and and depending on your needs, right? Uh that means supporting maybe things like auto sort, auto partition, auto index, you name it, right? uh it's working towards improving um uh performance or or cost under specific constraints um and and obviously it needs to be extensible and interoperable with existing infrastructure. Um we talk in the context of of openhouse right and that's how we implemented things initially but there is no reason that this uh uh type of tooling needs to be associated with a single control plane or a single uh uh catalog right uh we could develop this and integrate it with with different different of them. Uh but now uh getting there won't be easy. Uh there are still some big open problems as you can see. uh you know to name a few uh how do you schedule layout optimizations without disrupting workloads? That's something that we didn't talk uh at all today and it's something that that we have observed and that it is important. Uh how do you coordinate compaction and and guide policies uh uh across engines? Uh how do you build better cost models that actually reflect the workload reality? So you could see there that the cost model that was being used at at linking has proved very uh effective as you can see. But when we studied it in a little bit more of detail, we saw some uh discrepancies between what the model was returning versus for instance what the cost to run to run the actual compaction was right. So I think there is room for for improvement there and you know can we uh should we start integrating also some learning based strategies that adapt uh over time. Um so these are kind of problems that again should soon be solved over and over again by uh every uh vendor infra team research group and the goal here is you know why don't we build it together right so if this resonates with you um you know we'd love to connect so come chat with us after after the talk or or or reach out directly um and that's all thank you we also have more details about autoco comp uh in a in a paper that will be presented at sigmo later this year So if you want some more details, you can go and and check it. Thank you very much. I actually have uh two questions if I may. So one of them is uh basically you shown some graphs on how the how to put it uh your improvements and uh the costs or or the growth to be to be clear right they appears to be both um kind of rising linearly right and my assumption would be that spending so much time on the engine and its evolution At some point you would like it to be in a way disconnected, right? So your uh improvements and effectiveness should be in a way uh better than than your your growth, right? So this is kind of one thing that I that I noticed and the other one is kind of so if you running Kmax constantly, how are you avoiding a problem of the engine basically picking up with the same budget, right? Even though you you might do recalculations based on the total amount of the data you store for this particular budget but how are you avoiding cases of picking the same K things over and over again. Yeah. So thank you. Yeah great question. So uh to answer your first question I guess the linear growth is expected as the deployment size is going to grow. we are also going to see uh the number of file counts are going to grow at what rate is the uh real uh question here right so before we were as I pointed out before the rate of growth on file count was much faster than um the deployment size but now it's much slower uh so that's where like I think that we have bent the curve on the growth first and then now we are growing uh slowly slower than before so I think the rate is the differentiating factor between before and after Um I think the second point is uh a really good point. Um there are observations in our deployment as well where we see the same table being picked. Um uh now you could argue that hey like we are doing a right job like we are showing all these great metrics but in reality what should we do? Should we go tell the writer that hey why don't you like optimize your right job and like we don't run into that scenario that or like we tune our algorithm in such a way that like uh uh we have some kind of like u uh memory built into our top K selection process where we'll we'll try to like see that table maybe after a week or something like that. So I think that is something that we will want to iterate. We haven't looked at it but you are absolutely right. We are seeing uh same like some top two or three tables come very often the same tables. It's a constant tradeoff right tables. Correct. Correct. and then whether you do the randomization or something it's it's a trade-off absolutely I I think one one other point is um or a few of them but one is um also the um granularity at which you are uh selecting this table and when I mean granularity I don't mean table and and partition right now but how you group them together so you could think like you know you have some uh different units, right? Um, and then you're going to have uh tables allocated to each of them, right? Then you're going to have a budget per unit. Now, it's true that the same issue you will hit it per unit, but you can kind of minimize that issue uh because now you allocate for sure certain budget to a certain group of tables. Um something like Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Um in fact we have some weighted uh weights given and uh the interesting part here is as you add more optimization objectives to this equation it may happen that maybe that table doesn't get picked next time we'll if we add let's say query performance gain as an optimization objective we'll pick a table that is suffering on the queries higher than the other table. So it's um have you done any other type of optimizations during compaction like changing the park row group uh row group size or anything else because it sounds like from the compaction is just simply going from small files to bigger files. Is there more than that that you're doing behind the scenes that we can learn from? Um not right now. uh we just using the plain uh park uh compaction that which is merging to multiple files uh but we have talked about doing sorting uh during that compaction but that still doesn't change the the park row groups or anything of that sort. Yeah, one other thing to add um and that we didn't talk about today but in the paper there are a little bit of details we you know there there are certain um constants or or parameters that affect all this right like what you are describing and one thing that we started experimenting with was another project that we've developed in at GSL um that is called MLOS so machine learning open source uh that it's about autotuning of some of these parameters and we did some experimentation where we do tune some parameters. In particular, we're focusing on uh auto compaction parameters because there are parameters under the hood there. Uh but you could also extend it to the to the engines as well. Um so yeah, that's something that we look a little bit into and we plan to look into in the future. Yeah. Um, how do you deal? Well, first off, when you're approaching this, I feel like you're assuming a table has been set up in an optimal manner before you're looking at the compaction. So, how do you deal with um, let's say tables that are over partition where you run compaction, you're still going to have say 500,000 files in a 10 megabyte table because there's too many partition columns, for example. The one of the things that um Jesus touched upon is some of the overestimation that we are doing right now in our uh cost uh formulation and bene uh and benefit formulation. So when we do compaction at a table level, we don't look at partition granularity. And when you do that, you look at the whole table u uh scope. But then you know that you cannot compact files that cross partitions and that's where we observed that there is this overestimation coming from that. Now moving from a table scope to a table partition scope where we are ranking table partitions should allow us to get a better granularity in better u estimation that we do in terms of like uh uh computing the traits. Uh you want to add anything? Yeah just I mean that's a valid very valid point. I I I think one other thing um is also that you know as as you collect some of this information that telemetry you can kind of it's about looking holistically at the workload right so you know you can push this kind of knowledge to your to your producers um you know then they can do different things with with it um but yeah it's about looking I think holistically at the whole thing exactly and some of the work that we want to do next is exactly that like are we over partitioned or are we under partitioned that kind of thing and the in the road map um Jesus talked about there is something called auto part as part of that we are looking at um what is the cardality of your column what is the non number of non-distinct values you have in a column based on that we can come up with these strategies that this table should be partitioned by a certain column or this table should be sorted by a certain other column so that's that's future work so um I think you briefly touched on this also but what I NC was um relying on the query characteristics to figure out what you should do with the table. So for example, if a table is just being written all the time but not really queried, then why you should pick it up for compaction. Exactly. Right. or and uh and on a similar note right I mean going forward as you can see every single table is going to have its own custom compaction strategy or or some other way that will have to look at a querying you know query characteristics if it's filtering one particular column etc etc so so do you expect you know folks who are let's say operating the platform to go set those custom policies on those or will the system do you see a world where system can just do it magically. So the goal is the system should be able to do it magically. Um how we get there is I think the uh the point but uh you touched on upon an optimization objective that we want to uh consider in future which is how do you maximize query performance gains. We haven't included that in autocom's first version but what that would mean is now you're trading off your multiple objectives. The one of the objectives that we discussed was maximizing file count reduction. The other would be something like maximizing u um file scanned like reducing the file scanned during your queries right so once you have all these optimization objectives like together often there are conflicting objectives right like you pointed out you don't query that table and that there was one uh like tabled D was never queried should you pick it or not today we will pick it but tomorrow when we add file scan objective as an optim uh for optimization we will not because it will be ranking that table much over that allows us to get that dynamicity if you will u in our picking. You want to add anything? Yeah, thank you. So like the the point I wanted to touch upon was like when we're writing data, so there's there's a job that's initially writing data, then you're actually looking at various observations from that and the read consumptions to then run an optimization job, right? like compaction in this case. Are there patterns you're seeing wherein you want to push some of the compaction optimization into the right job itself to begin with saying that hey you know what so that we either minimize the amount of work we do here like I was just curious to see what patterns if any you've seen there this is uh something you looked at yeah um that's something again we we couldn't cover uh today but in the paper you have some information about this the idea is that this framework that we're describing right you can use it in multiple ways so you will be able to run it on on a schedule and that's what we're talking about and that's how it is run at linking. Uh you could also maybe uh put it into one of your your post uh uh guide hook right in a spark and then you know you would need you would make uh same type of decision whether you want to compact after guide or not and we talk a little bit about about that part. Um you know there are questions there whether you know then in in that uh um um yeah when when you do that uh whether you're going to be looking at the whole world at that point uh or are you going to be making a slightly different more local decision uh that's you know something that you can implement one way or another but again the idea was that the whole framework you can use it in in different different ways that was the the vision yeah and yeah I would argue that you're getting in the sense that how would you validate the where uh whereas the query is just uh slow because of the data modeling inefficient querying or because of a data underlying data layout or so right so whatever you're getting as an input it should be weighted and validated as well right so you should have a strong signals on whatever comes to you is actually correct in this sense. So this is basically back to the previous question. You want to take that one? Yeah. So I mean yeah I mean we agree with you. So it's a hard problem that's why also we focus on on the other one first. But indeed there are many uh uh different aspects that will influence query execution right and and it's not even uh only about the scan uh itself. So yeah when doing compaction did you all see a hit in the if read heavy tables like did you all kind of schedule it such a way that the compaction is not uh hitting performance of reads that are happening at the same time. So yeah that's a good question. Um so we haven't really scheduled the compaction uh uh like right now we haven't given enough thought to that um we we we have a particular schedule with at which autocomp runs but with iceberg given that we have the snapshot isolation in iceberg like we are kind of like a particular read is pinned to a snapshot in iceberg so uh it's it's very predictable in the kind of like what data files it will touch. So if a compaction is running concurrently with an incoming read then they they are isolated from each other. So we shouldn't expect any interference um because of compaction. Now and the impact on storage impacting the rest of the world I think that's a different uh uh thing and that's why we should be like a little mindful about when we run compaction where it really impacts and his touched on it was compaction commits conflicting with writer commits that kind of like is a big uh issue uh especially if you have a table that you're compacting that is getting like a very like uh like low latency commits like five minute commits. Yeah. And and that is something that we could by the way uh reproduce and explore very easily with the synthetic benchmark that I was describing because you know you are you are basically we're being very aggressive on the on the compaction side and then you could see some of the uh trickle inserts uh conflicting basically with that compaction. Um so yeah I mean right now we don't uh like was saying I can I can add to that. So generally the way we observe our workloads is they usually have like a daily granularity or an hourly granularity. We haven't enabled compaction on the tables that have five minute commits yet. Uh but one of the things that we are trying to think of is uh to point to the point that um Pan was making like how do you do this kind of a compaction as part of the right job. So we're trying to see if we can embed that uh compaction algorithm as part of the injection pipeline without really compromising on the SLAs for the injection. That's still uh work in progress. This is more of a fundamental question around compaction in iceberg. when you're let's say compacting 10 files into one file, uh do the 10 files are uh deleted right away uh once they're compacted or are they kept around for x amount of time until like uh a maintenance job kicks in and then deletes the files. So yeah, uh if is that the case or if the files stick around for some time like then you have actually some growth initially and then eventually like a clean up. Exactly. Uh so that's my that definitely uh so yeah you're absolutely right. uh has its own right amplification which kind of we touched base on. So it doesn't need a compaction job to result in a right amplification. If you are trying to update a partition using copy on write you'll have like the old data and also the new data for a certain period of time until you have a system which is um promptly um expiring snapshots deleting orphan files and stuff like that. Uh so yeah uh we will experience that trend. Um but in our measurements that we see is usually a fixed cost of amplification if you are doing a really good job at making sure all your maintenance runs on schedule. Okay. Okay. Thank you so much for being here.
