Title: Maintaining Iceberg at Scale: Lessons from Slack
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NRSlundcwvc
Upload date: 20260530
Video ID: NRSlundcwvc

=== Description ===

Apache Iceberg is a powerful and broadly applicable table format. But while Iceberg is generally applicable, maintaining Iceberg tables isn't.
 
At Slack, our Iceberg adoption grew from a small number of curated datasets to tens of thousands of tables across many teams and workloads. We quickly found that maintenance-not table creation or query performance-was the real scaling challenge. Compaction, snapshot expiration, and metadata growth vary widely based on data volume, ingestion patterns, and business importance, making one-size-fits-all approaches ineffective.
 
Just as importantly, the challenge was organizational. Expecting every data owner to understand Iceberg internals and reliably maintain their own tables didn't scale.
 
This talk covers how we addressed both problems by treating Iceberg maintenance as a centralized, automated platform capability. I'll share how we classify datasets, apply tailored maintenance strategies, and operate Iceberg safely at scale-along with the lessons we learned along the way.

Speakers:
- Lweikum (Speaker) - lweikum@salesforce.com

---
Recorded at Iceberg Summit 2026.
Learn more: https://www.icebergsummit2026.com/
#ApacheIceberg #IcebergSummit #DataLakehouse

=== Transcript ===

Hi everybody. Uh yeah, I'm Lawrence. I work at Slack. I'm here to talk about iceberg and how we do maintenance. Um first off, I do just want to give a great thank you to the selection committee for uh having Slack back uh to present again. And also for everybody here and streaming at home or from your office. Uh it really means a lot to us. Um today I'm going to talk about our iceberg adoption journey just very briefly so you understand like what types of maintenance we're trying to do uh as well as the requirements that we wanted to have for all of our tables. Um I'll talk about our solution which we nicknamed ice chipper. Um I'll tell you like how it's working and then what our future plans are. Um I'll make sure to save some time to at the end for some Q&A. Um so first our uh data lakehouse it's about 180 pabytes. Uh and I work on the data ingestion team right so I'm very focused about the amount of data coming in. So it's about 250 terabytes of logging data uh between application replication and CDC. That's another 55 terabytes. Um in total we have about 35,000 give or take uh analytical tables and that's across 29,000 different uh analytical pipelines. Um our first use case of iceberg actually was when we were switching over from a batch ingestion uh pipeline to a streaming ingestion pipeline. So we use kafa connect because it offers a really quick uh sync into the lakehouse and it uses iceberg natively. Um the biggest piece is that it gave us the flexible partitioning uh strategies. I mean before we had to create copies of tables partitioned differently. It was a huge headache. Now we could just you know uh switch it no problem. Um also some of our biggest tables too had millions of partitions and when we use hive metas store as our cataloging system there's a ton of metadata there. Moving all that into S3 just makes the whole system a lot more streamlined. We then moved over to our CDC pipelines. Um so this is with the vetest debzium kafka again the iceberg sync and then uh into our iceberg tables we actually have use cases where we want to see the uh the change log uh in the data lakehouse. So we actually do a merge table every hour to create that snapshot from upstream. Um after my team success others started to tack onto it. So very quickly some uh business and metrics really liked the write audit publish that iceberg offered. Um so they started to take on iceberg as well. And then slack is sharing data across its data mesh. uh Hive was a big barrier to being able to do that. Iceberg and the iceberg rest catalog was a way to very quickly allow us to share data across the ecosystem with a zero copy uh type of thing. Um overall we've seen great performance. I'm sure everybody else has here too with iceberg. Uh but we've seen some queries go as fast as like 70% faster. It's just insane what file pruning can do, right? Um and who here has not had uh the uh the early experience of dropping a production uh table, right? In Hive, that was a nightmare. You had to try to remember the schema. You had to repair the table. Sometimes repair wouldn't work. You had to add the partitions back manually. Now, you just point it to a metadata file and say, "Hey, please register. You're done in 30 seconds." Um, I think from a security perspective, redaction is now much much faster uh because we can get we're able to target just the files that need uh to be scrubbed, not the entire data set or a partition. Um, our kind of trajectory here is really about moving off of Hive and Parquet and moving more over to iceberg. Um, the iceberg rest catalog is the main way that we've been doing that. It creates a great abstraction layer above whatever catalog system we may be on. So today is Hive, tomorrow we're looking for something else. Um, and like you 101 15 years ago, it was very common that like you had to push your data to these different um, uh, uh, uh, execution engines. uh now the data gets to sit there and the executions come to the data and so we offer a lot of different execution systems uh sparklinko snowflake stars even the data uh data cloud uh we have penino in the mix but penino doesn't yet read iceberg natively we're hoping that it will in the future um and so this has all been a great uh kind of trajectory for us I think that slack is very quickly approaching if not we're already at the critical inflection point of mass and default adoption of iceberg in our data lakehouse visually this is what I'm kind of showing you see like okay my team was the very early adopters right and now we're trying to enter uh that that building momentum phase and you see hey we did get some momentum and then it just flatlined okay what happened well we found out that there was friction uh friction from offering maintenance uh to our tables and how exactly that was going to be done and then also like how the migration was going to play out and so we had to slow down for a little bit to try to solve both of those aspects um and then you can see right after that not only did we more than double uh but are we're actually accelerating uh out of that plateau Cool. Um, so a big portion of this, like I said, was our maintenance. Uh, so how did we solve for maintenance? Um, I'm a big believer, I'm sure everybody else has heard, like there's no such thing as a free lunch. Maintenance is the cost of adopting iceberg. But I'm a fan of making lunch as cheap as possible. Um, as I visited uh the summit last year and as I visit the uh Bay Area PI iceberg or sorry, just the iceberg meetups, um, I found that iceberg is generally applicable. you know where you used to have specialized data structures or specialized compute for a variety of different u uh applications uh iceberg's performance is just good enough that people can just adopt it so you just take it but I think applying maintenance is a little bit dependent on your stack and then the data and how you use it so I say that to preface like what works for us may not work for you but and you'll see a little bit later I think what works for us will probably work for a lot of you so from a social perspective of like how did we actually go about like applying m uh maintenance in mass. The first thing is that we thought well maybe the teams that own the data should actually run the maintenance. Slack has a lot of different analytical teams, they're the ones building the data sets, they're the ones that created the tables, they should be able to do it. What that means is that there's a lot of onboarding costs, right? You have to do uh knowledge transfer. You have to educate about iceberg. That could be a lot of friction points. And as teams try to do maintenance, uh maybe there's inconsistent execution. Um there's just like this ongoing burden, right? It just didn't seem feasible. So we said, well, let's iterate. Let's try to simplify. What if we curate scripts or some type of self-service where teams could still own the maintenance and run it themselves? That way there's um better consistency across the maintenance operations and there's less of an onboarding burden. And teams are like, look, we just want to focus on the data. We don't want to focus on the plumbing. You know, we're like, you know what, you're right. What do you care if your tables in Hive and Parquet or if it's iceberg or in any other format? What do you care about like the partitioning schemes? Like we can kind of help with uh some of like the file printing with partitioning, sure. but like they should be focused on the data and what it's trying to represent and the insights they can glean from it. So let's build a centralized service so that there's no onboarding cost for our teams around the organization. Now we're going to have consistent execution around all of our maintenance operations and people can just focus on the data themselves. So the next question is like okay but then what type of data do we have? Um after some investigation we kind of came to four different categories at least within Slack. versus static data, right? This is uh think of like your billing tiers. If you're a startup, you're trying to fit the market, maybe your billing tiers change a couple times a month. Slack, our billing tiers might change like every two to three years, right? This data is pretty uh pretty static. It doesn't change that often. So, you write once, you read many times. Uh a very popular one for us is the append only. Uh especially for batch. Um we have like these longitudinal analyses that happen all the time. So, we kind of tack on a new uh uh bucket of time and this is added about hourly or daily. Maybe you recalculate a partition, write and insert overwrite. Um but overall you write once, you read many times. Similar to that as our streaming aspect, right? Um you're now writing data often, right? So you write once uh often and then read very few uh many times. And then we have this last section which I am calling volatile. This is where like the data set uh is keeps getting updated. So you might have uh upserts, inserts, deletes, you know, different types of merge uh merge operations. If you are using merge on read, likely your table falls into this category. And so after we had these four categories, we're like, okay, what types of maintenance do these table needs? And so we just wrote it down. Uh we went to the documentation online and said, hey, here's the procedures you can call. And we're like, okay, snapshot expiration, yep, we got to do that. Manifest rewrites, that's great for query planning. Keeps things nice and fast across all execution engines. Orphan file deletions, absolutely. We want to manage the size of our lakehouse. We don't want to store data that's not accessible uh around. So let's delete that. Uh data retention. This is not something you'll find in the maintenance uh applications but we found that this was very relative to the maintenance of a table. Before we had you know S3 and we had life cycle policies. It was a file level operation uh or a file system level operation about maintenance. Now we get to conceptualize like hey this data set we need 90 days of data. Let's just store that. So we moved it towards the data set layer. Um and then we also have to do compaction right rewriting data files especially for the streaming cases um and for the volatile also like rewriting deletion delete position uh files this became very important and so some of you in the audience is like hey I'm seeing a pattern here yep some of these operations are ubiquitous across uh each type of our data sets and then some are probably opt in based on their type so along with these data sets we're like hey okay for our maintenance requirements we should try to run maintenance on a table at least once a day um some progress is better than no progress. We should make partial progress. It's not an all or nothing approach. We want to try to minimize external dependencies and leverage the infrastructure that we had. So for us that's airflow for orchestration spark uh on EMR as our execution. Um and while I could have spun up an external uh database like in Aurora, I was like hey we're using iceberg let's just leverage iceberg. Uh we want to track everything that happens uh in the system and then we also want to surface the errors and put it over to on call for investigations. So all that together is how we created Ice Shipper. It's our centralized managed iceberg maintenance service. Um this is the diagram of the entire system. So there's a discovery service that'll read in from the catalog and it'll try to find the iceberg tables in the catalog. Every once in a while, Airflow will kick off a Spark job. Spark will look at the discovery uh table and say, "Hey, I'm going to have a few tables that I'm going to execute maintenance on." It's going to lock them. I'll get to locking here in a second. uh execute the maintenance in parallel on the spark job and it's going to write everything to a tracking table and then everything is surfaced to uh dashboards so that our on call can look at see what's happening in the system. So the discovery is great because now we have dynamic on and offboarding tables come in and out of existence all the time. Sometimes we have uh tables that also are like migrated and for some reason we need to uh like migrate back to hive and parquet. A big part of that is that penino integration. Um and then we also have the ability to skip maintenance in case a data set is in an inconsistent state or for some reason we just need to hold off on doing maintenance for it. Tracking is very granular. Uh it's down at uh each maintenance operation that we do. So we know uh when maintenance starts on a table as well as when it ends if it was a success or a failure and then any metadata. And so the metadata might be a stack trace if there was a failure or it's going to be say like uh how many data files were rewritten if it was successful. And then the lock, it's really just there to make sure that like no two maintenance actors are working on a table at the same time. That causes a lot of orphan files to be created and we just didn't want that. It in no way inhibits uh outside actors like our analytical pipelines, some reading or writing to the database. We're just making sure that like ice chipper we're only going to act on something uh one at a time. Um so the spark job like I said it runs on a cadence. It tries to acquire locks using a merge operation uh into the locking table and then after that it starts to run all the maintenance operations really in a defined order. We wanted to go from the most lightweight and the least risky to the heaviest and the most risky. And so really what we found is that it's the required maintenance that should be run first and then the opt-in maintenance that's run last. Uh we try to parallelize maintenance within the Spark job. I think we do about four at a time, but there's a little knob there. Um, and then just to make sure like we're uh not falling behind or we are running on like a bad EMR cluster, we kill the job after 24 hours and make those tables eligible for maintenance again in the next uh day. Um, Spark sometimes fails. You know, the drivers especially if they go out, you have to restart your job. So, we needed item potency and some resiliency to be built in. So, the run ID of the Spark application is actually the primary key for like uh for the lock table. And so when it tries to acquire the locks, it will reacquire the locks for the batch that it was already working on and then refresh uh the lock in case um it is a restart. Um and like I said, like all the errors are kind of grouped and prioritized for uncalled effects uh in the dashboard. So some of you might be thinking, well, hold on, that's an awful lot of writes going to the locking table and to the tracking table. How did you deal with the uh the pressure? Um we dealt with it in two ways, I think. First is that we tried to do batch inserts as much as possible. So instead of writing one uh line and then keeping committing, right? That's going to create a lot of small data files, a lot of snapshots. We're going to try instead to write everything in batch. Um the second part is we turned on merge on read, right? Because it offers the atomic transaction. So that means you have to acquire the lock, do your right, and then release the lock. Now acquiring and releasing you have to do, but you can shorten the window of how long you you keep the lock. So by these two operations, we significantly reduced uh the right pressure uh to these tables. Um honestly, we haven't really encountered any issues with it unless the ice chipper tables themselves are now not being maintained. We've only had that issue once, never again. That was a very quick one to learn. Um but yeah, our main throughput uh for our ice chipper system is now three different knobs. It's the batch size, how often uh we run a Spark job, and then how many job or how many tables we're acting on in parallel within the Spark job. So that's Ice Chipper. How well does it work? Um, today we're maintaining over 4,000 tables and we have a 99.9 uh% success rate on all of our maintenance operations, which is fantastic. Our batch size right now is about uh 35 tables. So I think like pretty reasonable for what we're looking at. Um, the average time that a batch is being executed is about 15 minutes. And I want to just take a moment here to say that's pretty impressive, but also that's way overestimating how long these will typically take. I think I probably should have done a median instead of an average. Um those uh core group of operations are very lightweight. They're very fast. I think a batch of 35 tables operating a time. It takes two minutes total. The um the longtail here really comes with compaction and then for orphan file deletion for some of our biggest tables. Um I think the most complex ones that we deal with are usually about 17 pabytes of data. Um it's also a streaming uh table and there are just a lot of orphan files that kind of culminate with that. Um we also try to keep track of everything that's happening uh in our system through dashboards. Uh some of that also we can grab uh grab visuals from. So here's a few graphs uh as an example. You can see like our manifest file deletions over time, how much data we're compacting over time. And you notice that there's an upward trend too. Uh that's also because we have been having increased data volumes either for new use cases or because we're now getting more uh volume through some of our current uh pipelines. The orphan file deletion one is kind of interesting. You see sometimes it spikes up to over six million files a day. Sometimes it looks like it's in the thousand and that can be uh expected somewhat if you're having um uh say like if you're using EMR uh a lot like us, you might have a lot of retries one day. There's an infrastructure glitch or someone deployed something that wasn't supposed to be there. There's a lot of retries. Okay, sure. you're going to have a lot of orphan files or we uh run kafa connect right to do a lot of our streaming maybe we have a lot of deploys and updates that day and every time you deploy uh the Icecom connector has to wind back a little bit and then replay and it's going to be writing uh new files and there's going to be some orphaned um but we also found that like orphan files actually plays into uh that 0.1% of what is going wrong. So let's talk about that 0.1%. Um, or file deletion is probably like our hardest maintenance that we're trying to to work through today. Um, the biggest one I would say is like the driver out of memory. This is the most common one. What happens when the procedure calls uh when you call the procedure to delete orphan files? It will remove all the orphan files and then it returns back to the driver a list of all the files that deleted. If within that batch you have say 2 million files, you're going to run out of memory. And so we run the driver today even with 80 gigs of memory. Sometimes we still run out of memory. uh there's just sometimes a lot of orphan files and that's uh unfortunate but at least the deletes happen we just kind of lose some visibility into tracking what I think is probably more pressing is the uh uh AWS sometimes we get rate limited by how quickly uh the procedure is trying to delete uh the files there that one does involve a stack trace that means we only get partial uh deletion and so the problem kind of compounds the next time we run the operation um another issue that we're noticing is what I call statistical batch clashing this is where you have a lot of the largest and streaming tables that are trying to have uh their data compacted at the same time. Um what happens is that they can actually starve some of the smaller tables for maintenance or what happens more likely is that uh you hit that 24-hour timeout and then those tables just happen to be uh uh scheduled in the next batch again and so the problem again kind of compounds where you're always getting a little bit farther away uh from totally being compacted and the problem grows. Uh and then one kind of edge case uh to along with this um we have a lot of S3 life cycle policies. I don't know how many people how many data sets people have been dealing with you know but one uh S3 life cycle policy for each of those is kind of a lot. Sometimes we don't find them. Sometimes we forget to delete them. And when uh you kind of merge life cycle policies uh with iceberg it will accidentally delete either a manifest file or a data file. And these are surfaced uh not only within uh Ice tripper when it's trying to run maintenance but also when people are trying to query the data you get stack traces. Luckily, our bucket is versioned and so we can remove the delete marker in time and then uh pick up process. Um but yeah, all to say like there is a transition period when you're going from like the file level uh pruning to the data set level pruning. So those are how we're um we're kind of missing the mark today. There's definitely room for improvement. However, um I think the system is going to work well for us uh in the future. I hinted before that what works for us will probably work for a lot of you too. Um and I have the rare gift I actually have an opportunity to see into the future. Um Slack is owned by Salesforce and with that there are multiple data engineering uh organizations around and we actually found one that has uh a eerily sim eerily similar ecosystem to us. they all have almost the same amount of data, the same amount of tables, the complexities, the data in and out, a very similar stack, just their adoption curve is two years ahead of ours. Um, and so we started at different places. Both teams started to create their own uh solution. And when our side was going through the architecture review process, that's when we found out about the other team and we compared notes and we created almost the exact same system. Like a couple little differences here or there, but like just wow. All right. if like two different sides come to the same conclusion, I think that's a pretty good system. So, I'm kind of banking that theirs is working and it does seem like it's working. They're 10x uh where we are today. So, I'm very confident in our future. Um part of our plans to I remember like a year ago uh I came to the summit here and I started hearing about puff and files, right? There's new maintenance operations that are now available to us um for the the stats and the partition stats. Um this can definitely help to improve uh query planning and performance maybe in some more pruning. Um so we want to incorporate the new features there. Um we also are looking at a different uh orchestration model. Airflow was what we had at the time we were evaluating temporal. Temporal now we have operational maturity with. So now we trying to think like hey what if we dynamically create batches instead of just trying to have a very simple system like we have today. Maybe we create batches not for groups of tables but for groups of operations that should be uh that should be done. Um, we do have to keep mind or be mindful of like the right pressure uh that we put on the locking and tracking tables, but I'm not terribly concerned with that because we do have a good handle on it today. Um, but also with that, we might be able to put on different SLAs's for different types of data. Remember that four categories I had before your static data, do you really need to be deleting or expiring the snapshots on it every day? There's probably not new snapshots, right? So, you can probably uh have maintenance act on those tables uh less often. However, for like the streaming data sets, you definitely need to be compacting that data every day. In fact, maybe we should be compacting data uh more often like down to the hourly level. Um if you do maintenance uh like that more often, it means that you're sizing down the inputs. You need significantly less resources and you can distribute the volume of your resources over time. So it's a much safer and much more reliable setup. Um and then of course like we are very much focused on the AI initiatives too. We're trying to incorporate different ways of AI to help either the decision-m or tuning on like how the maintenance operations work. Um so that's also to be incorporated into there. I would say like a couple of things uh that we also want to look at. Um we want to pivot a little bit on the orphan file deletion. Um so like I said the two biggest issues we have right now is the out of memory and then also the rate limiting. Um we do have the oppos option uh to try to um run the procedure uh in a dry run mode right essentially just gathering the files that are eligible for deletion. We can then take those and put it into a buffered system. That way we can avoid the AWS the the the rate limits that we're we're seeing. Um, oddly enough, our counterparts do something kind of similar. They do something that I call manual uh, orphan file deletion where they compare their S3 manifest files with the iceberg metadata and that's how they find the orphan files and then put it into a buffered queue. So, buffer cues especially at our scale might be the way to go. Um, but also like we want to become contributors. Uh, we have been I guess lurkers is maybe the right term, but it's a little bit older term. We've been looking at the code. We've been looking at the communities, been reading a lot of the docs. Uh, we've been looking at a lot of the conversations online. we want to try to contribute. Maybe there's something we can offer here in terms of like knobs or tuning, but it's already built by a lot of smart people. So, I think uh what's um the knobs are probably already there. We're just still trying to learn how to best to use them. Um and if we can probably leverage them better in the future. The other part I think is the compaction. Um compaction is sometimes smart and it is sometimes really dumb and I can't quite figure out why. Compaction will happen on a table and maybe we compact the first 100 partitions and then the next time we uh run compaction it notices we have two more partitions great compact those done other times it'll try to recompact the entire data set I thought of a whole bunch of different ways or like why this might be happening maybe there was late arriving data maybe somebody updated something maybe there was a insert overwrite somewhere nope sometimes it's smart sometimes it's not I can't explain it um so we have a few possible solutions here one we already have implemented is we have a boundary we only say compact at most the last seven days. Uh that's been super helpful. Um but yeah, I think we want to try to decouple compaction from other maintenance operations. Um and that also leads us to our final thing. I think the opt-in operations we probably want to decouple from the core pieces. Those core pieces I mentioned at the beginning run super fast, right? A batch of 35 tables, 2 minutes, you're in and you're out. You know, that's great and that's reliable. The heavier ones, you want to try to tune your resources better to try to serve those. Um and um I think the decoupling them and trying to orchestrate them in a different way is probably the key goal here. Um so we're definitely going to take some learnings. I'm sure uh as I talk to a lot of other people uh at this conference, I'm going to learn even more. Um we have about six minutes left in case people have any questions. >> Applause for Lawrence. >> Thank you so much, Lawrence. [applause] All right, here's our first question. >> Great talk. Thank you. Uh, what catalog do you use? >> Oo. Um, so right now we still use the Hive catalog. Um, we do have an iceberg uh, rest sitting on top of it, uh, giving access to our data mesh. We are re-evaluating Hive though long term. Uh, we just don't know exactly what that strategy is going to be yet. >> Have you looked at S3 tables? because they claim that they do a lot of this compaction, a lot of the maintenance automatically. >> Yeah, we have looked at S3 tables. Um, I can't speak to their abilities recently. Uh, we were in talks with our AWS provider and our representative about a year and a half ago when that product was first released. >> We had a lot of questions for them. Um, and we asked, you know, what maintenance do you run? How often do you run it? We need to fine-tune some things. Um, some tables too we want to be able to internally sort so you can you can compact and sort data so you have better file pruning. Um, a lot of the features that we were looking for weren't offered at the time and so we kind of just moved past them in terms of our iceberg adoption. We're still just on the basic uh S3 uh standard tier. Um, but it is something for others to evaluate. It might fit your needs. Um, but I think we're kind of past the point on where we would probably consider it as a product at least for from our side. >> One last question. How do you tune your partitions? like what how do you arrive at at this scale? >> Um I want to say something really smart here. I don't think I can. Um I think when we notice problems or when we get a lot of our stakeholders saying hey performance is slow. That's when we start to reevaluate. And we do a couple things there. We look one at how much data they're trying to query. sometimes they need to be um kind of aggregating their metrics or their insights at a more granular level and more often. That is like probably the biggest speed up already. But we do have specific cases for some of our largest tables. Um this is like the multipetabyte range where the partitioning strategy is really important. Um with that though you have to be mindful I think of data skew. This happened to like the batch world where like a few partitions say you have like a medium cardality uh table like 200 maybe like up to a thousand partitions. you're gonna have a data skew where like the top 10% have most of the data and then you have tiny files everywhere else. Um, as soon as we see that where it's like, hey, we should probably do the uh bucketing uh partitioning strategy or we have uh done one where we have uh a manual partitioning strategy where each one of those top performers gets their own and then everybody else is lumped into a default bucket. >> Um, so it's a bit of a manual process. It is does mean there's some inefficiencies that are in there right now. Um, but yeah, something that we're definitely looking at. >> Thank you. All right, we have time for just a couple more here. >> Uh, so I wonder without locking a table, how do you uh delete the orphan files because you might have upcoming file to your bucket but that's never commit not committed to your table yet. >> This is true. I believe, don't quote me, 90% sure, I think in the remove orphan file deletion there is a um a time boundary. So if a file is less than I think 24 hours old, it's ineligible for the or of file deletion. Um so in a streaming case that works really well for us. Uh we commit to the tables every 5 minutes. Let's say there's a disaster, we have to expand that and it's every 15 minutes. Um so it's well within like that 24-hour scope. Uh, no worries there. Um, I don't think we currently have any batch jobs that run for more than 24 hours. Iceberg actually scaled those down. We had a couple that were like two days and now they're at about 4 hours. So, I think as long as we are within that 24-hour window, it's something we just kind of scope out. >> Hi. Um I was wondering in your experience which type of tables are easier to maintain copy on right or merch on read. >> Um that's a really good question. I think uh actually I'm going to I'm going to pivot a little bit on the lens. I don't think it's necessarily the the writing or the merge on read. Um I think it's how many changes are happening to the table itself. Um the tables that are streaming, you write lots of tiny files, they need compaction. I think that's one area where the maintenance really gets heavy. Um I think the other one is probably with the tables that have a large amount of volume. Um those ones are likely to have lots of orphan files, especially uh if you're calculating say like 500 terabytes a day uh in a batch land. Um you're likely going to have to have retries uh just because things time out. Um, I guess also if you have a lot of uh deletes in a table, right, those volatile data sets I think are the most uh uh the hardest ones to to maintain. So with those four categories that I kind of put above, like the static and the append batch are definitely like the easiest. I think those are um those are probably like the two minutes like in and out. It's the latter two. It's the streaming and the volatile that are the hardest and the problem compounds with the amount of volume that you have. >> Thank you. >> All right, we have time for one more. >> Cool. Yeah, I just have a short question. Um, in the injection pipeline, you mentioned DBZM Kafka. Is there a specific um difference between using Blink CDC uh versus Dubzium Kafka in terms of maintenance? >> Ooh. Um, I'm not fully sure to be honest. I think like right you have different ingestion systems. There's probably something that one does better than the other. I think at the end of the day, you're probably still writing a lot of small files uh out into your your data lake. So, I think there's still like some compaction that needs to be done. So, from a maintenance perspective, that's about the same. Um maybe there's a difference with like how often you're committing or how big the files are as you're writing out of those streaming systems that can help kind of tune that. Um I know for Kafka Connect, that's what we primarily use. There are knobs that you can tune. You can try to aim for 512 megabyte files coming out of the system. Um I think by default it actually does 32 megabytes. So that's something that we we kind of tuned. Um but it also depends on the data skew across the partitionings that you're writing uh to. Um Flink probably has some advantages. Um but yeah, Kafa Connect has worked really well for us and I think it was very lightweight and allowed us to to launch very quickly. So that's why we chose it. But I know a lot of people use Flink. Um they can probably give you a better answer on that end than I can. >> Really great job. Another big hand for Lawrence. Thank you all.
