Title: Learnings from Running Large-scale Apache Iceberg™ Table Management Service
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JN6K1pdFImc
Upload date: 20250430
Video ID: JN6K1pdFImc

=== Description ===

#icebergSummit 2025 breakout session delivered by Anurag Mantripragada and Karuppayya Rajendran from #Apple.

Session Description:
Keeping #ApacheIceberg data and metadata files in check is essential for optimal performance of Iceberg tables. Building a service for maintaining Iceberg table’s health relieves users of the burden of monitoring and intervening when files grow out of hand impacting Iceberg table query performance.
 
This presentation delves into the intricacies of operating a large-scale service focused on Iceberg table maintenance, practical lessons learnt, and tradeoffs. We will explore other aspects of this service including structuring of the jobs, their resource utilization, performance, and scalability and user experience designed to provide intuitive control and visibility over the table maintenance process. We will also discuss our ongoing efforts to implement autonomous maintenance.
 
By the end of this session, you'll learn how to build a table management system at scale, and understand the architectural challenges and trade-offs that come with it.

=== Transcript ===

Hello. Hi, my name is Gemma. I'll be your moderator for this session. Uh, a quick reminder that we will have time for brief live Q&A after the presentation. So, be sure to use the ask the speaker tab to ask questions and engage with your fellow attendees. So, now it's time to welcome Anurra and Kurupaya for uh from Apple. They're presenting learnings from running largecale Apache iceberg table management service. So over to you. Uh thanks Jimma. Thanks for the introduction. Yeah. Now let's uh dive into building and running uh a large scale Apache table management service. Uh next next so uh the agenda for of this talk will be uh I'll be uh introducing uh how to build a Apache table management service and brief architecture overview. uh the considerations uh for such a building such a service and the observability aspects of the system and the rest catalog integrations uh for the service and uh any enhancements that we could make uh after building the bare barebones table management service. Next slide. So uh we are all familiar with the benefits of iceberg tables and the ease with which we can keep them healthy. Things like expiring snapshots, performing data compaction, managing metadata, and orphan file removal are relatively simple for a single table. But what happens when you're dealing with not with one table but a dozens, hundreds or even thousands of tables. Suddenly the manual approach to these maintenance tasks become overwhelming. That's the challenge that we are going to explore today. uh that is uh handling iceberg tables at scale. So let me ask you are you facing challenges with resource management when dealing with your iceberg tables? Is time consumption involved in maintaining your iceberg tables becoming a significant concern? Is the potential for human error a growing worry as the number of tables increase? Are you experiencing a high operational overhead in keeping your iceberg tables healthy? Are you finding it difficult to dynamically adapt the table management processes as the data evolves? If answer to any of these questions is a yes and then this talk is for you. Next slide. So having established the challenges of managing iceberg tables at scale, let's now consider building an iceberg table management system and what benefits it should provide. Firstly, it should minimize the operational overhead. Think back to the challenges we discussed, the time, the resources, and the potential for error. An effective system would significantly reduce the manual effort in these routine maintenance tasks, freeing up valuable time and resources for more strategic initiatives. Secondly, it should offer catalog and database level optimizations. Instead of treating tables in isolation, we would need to understand the broader context of the data landscape allowing for optimizations that can span across multiple tables. Furthermore, building on this uh an ideal system should provide optimal performance. This can be achieved by consistently keeping the metadata and data compacted ensuring efficient read paths. Also, we would need to collect the statistics of the table allowing query engines to make smarter execution plans without the need for manual tuning. And finally, it should also reduce the cost. An ideal system minimizes the resource usage through efficient operations, reduces the manpower needed for manual maintenance and proactively reclaims valuable space by identifying and removing the orphan files translating low to lower storage costs. Next slide. So next uh let's look at an architecture of a table management system. This is this will be a barebones architecture of an table management system and I will be referring to the table maintenance operations as workloads going forward. This ideal architecture is structured around few core components. I'll start with the control plane. In this ideal setup, the control plane is the central hub for managing and orchestrating all the workloads. Within the control plane, we envision a robust workload manager. This component goes beyond basic scheduling to intelligently manage and prioritize iceberg operation based on factors like urgency, resource availability. It provides a comprehensive view of the workload runs, status and histories. Then comes the orchestrator. It dynamically manages the life cycle of the spark jobs and optimizes the res resource allocation for the workload runs. It seamlessly handles job submission, monitoring and error handling. Then there is an event manager. It provides realtime actionable insights into the iceberg environment. It would emit detailed events allowing for proactive alerting and automated response. automated responses to various conditions and it can integrate can be integrated with various notification systems and there's a comprehensive monitoring subs subsystem which would offer deep visibility into all aspects of the system. This includes performance metrics, resource utilization and potential bottlenecks. The data plane in this architecture remains the execution layer and it leverages primarily the spark jobs. I will double click on Y spar jobs in subsequent slides. Uh supporting these layers is a uh a policy store. This defines the how, what and when of the maintenance tasks. Finally, there is this iceberg catalog which is the foundational meta store which provides a con consistent reliable view of the table metadata across the entire system. In an ideal workflow, the workload manager would create workloads by creating the by reading the policy store, submitting it to the orchestrator and orchestrator will create the relevant number of uh spark jobs and run these workloads and relay relay the status back to the workload manager. Event and monitoring subsystem provide the provide monitoring on top of the workloads. Next slide. Yeah. So, uh like like I mentioned, Spark is one of the key components in this uh data plane. There are several compelling reasons for this choice, making it a powerful engine for managing iceberg at scale. Firstly, Spark current offers the most complete and mature support for essential iceberg table and maintenance processes. Spark provides robust APIs and functionality to handle these vital tasks effectively which is very critical for production workloads. Secondly, Spark's inherent scalability and fall tolerance are critical when dealing with large data sets. This reliability is paramount in production environments. Finally, Spark has been the first engine to implement reference implementations for all the new features in Apache iceberg and is also the first engine to get all the bug fixes related to to these features. While alternatives like Trino and Flink exist, they do not yet match the breadth and maturity of Spark. I would uh I would like to uh I would like to uh I would like to request Anorak to uh talk about the further challenges and the scalability challenges and also other observability aspects of the table management service. Thank you Karpa that was a great intro and um thanks for illustrating what an ideal solution might look like uh and also our um decision to go with Spark. So going forward we'll be using spark as the engine and then let's talk about some challenges. So Parupia discussed about uh the overall architecture but we want to now dive uh dive deeper into the intricacies of building such a system. So in this talk we want to focus on three key challenges. First is um as Kupe alluded to this is actually a centralized system that manages tables across cataloges. So one major requirement of such a system is to keep the jobs isolated and within their security boundaries. So second um challenge we face is of efficient resource utilization. Spark jobs can quickly become out of hand and we don't want maintenance workloads to overrun the cluster and interfere with business critical jobs. And the third challenge is of scale. Managing thousands of tables while optimizing resource usage requires careful orchestration. So let's explore how to address these challenges through our design. Let's talk about scheduling strategies. I want to start with how we address multi-tenency. To keep TMS workloads isolated, we need to define clear security boundaries. This means that when we schedule Spark jobs, we must ensure that the configurations, secrets, and storage access are properly isolated. The simplest way to achieve this is to run one job, one table for every Spark job that will be fully sandboxed. But this approach comes with cost of resource efficiency. Launching hundreds of thousands of individual jobs is not sustainable. So a more efficient solution is to share Spark jobs across tables that belong to the same catalog. In this case, the tenant is the catalog. The only only constraint is that all the tables inside the inside the catalog or the tenant must share the same security credentials and storage configurations. This is actually in practice, this is actually true for most deployments. For example, a catalog may map to an S3 bucket and all the databases and tables under it are within the same bucket. So a TMS job operating at a catalog can share the credentials and access policies through the B. Another thing to keep in mind is table maintenance jobs are asynchronous and also automated. That means the system should run these in a headless mode. Typically this is done using system accounts with the right access. An added benefit of this kind of setup is that it enables users especially data admins and S surres to schedule jobs at higher levels of abstraction like per catalog or database instead of individually going and scheduling per every table. This is a great quality of life improvement for administrators. Overall, sharing Spark jobs is a way to significantly reduce resource footprint and it also lowers the workload latency helping us meet both our isolation and efficiency goals. Okay, now that we have decided to share Spark jobs, the next question is how do we partition workloads across them? K already mentioned what a workload is in our context, so I'll use the same term. A workload is an individual TMS operation like optimize data. These operations are usually not executed together or in parallel. In fact, they are sequenced intentionally for best results. For instance, compaction does not remove old files. So, it is generally followed by snapshot expiry to clean up any unused data and to save on storage costs. In a typical schedule, we might have many workloads of the same type across tables in a net. So a naive approach is to just use round robin distribution that is simply spread all the workloads evenly across available spark jobs. As you might already tell, while this works for small catalogs, this this design breaks down at scale. It assumes that all tables are equal and therefore all workloads are equal. which isn't true. In reality, tables vary greatly in size, file counts, data layouts, and even business importance. So, some workloads end up becoming heavier than the others, causing imbalanced job run times and even failures. Also, smaller critical tables may get starved in this design. So, how can we improve this? A better strategy is to introduce t-shirt sizing. that is categorizing sparks job into different sizes and assign assigning workloads accordingly. We define a spark job size or a t-shirt size using spark configurations like executor size or number of executors. For example, a small t-shirt size could be a 16 GB executor and five exeutors per spark job and a medium size could mean 24 GB memory per exeutor and 10 executors and so on. This distribution helps us match job capacity with the workload cost allowing small jobs to complete quickly and avoiding overprovisioning of lighter tasks. Large tables may still suffer from starvation or long run times in this model but we can address that by handling large tables differently such as launching dedicated jobs per table. That said, this approach still assumes all table are equal in importance which we'll fix next using prioritization. Again, in practice, not all tables are equal regardless of their size. You might have a table powering an executive dashboard that runs every morning. That table needs to be in optimal health always. On the other hand, there might be another table that is updated frequently, but only read once a month, making its freshness far less critical. To handle this variability, we'll introduce table prioritization. This approach helps ensure that business critical tables stay healthy and allow TMS to defer lower priority workloads especially when the cluster is under pressure. Here's a simple prioritization scheme. P 0 all P 0 tables must always be held. P1 these tables should run soon but can wait briefly and P2 this is normal priority where TMS can run on these tables in within an SLA of 8 hours for example. TMS always schedules higher priority workloads first and decurs the rest accordingly. The trade-off however is that this adds complexity to our routing logic since scheduling must now account for both resource sizing as well as business importance. So far we've talked about scheduling strategies that is how to prioritize and route workloads efficiently. Now let's look at scaling strategies. Specifically, how will how we submit workloads to Spark jobs in a scalable way. Since this is a central service responsible for maintaining hundreds of cataloges and thousands of tables, the system must handle a large volume of workloads efficiently. Each maintenance operation is implemented as a procedure in Spark and we want to submit the Spark uh procedure um that can be run via Spark SQL. We also want to exchange some metadata and observability data between the control plane and the spark jobs. Um so one approach to do to enable this is to start a lightweight rest server inside each spark job. This allows TMS to communicate with the spark driver using REST APIs. This pattern is actually quite feasible in production. Most Spark deployments already run a web server in the driver for Spark UI. So we could reuse the same communication infrastructure but listening on a different port. The key advantage of this model is it does not require any other additional coordination systems. It's lightweight and very simple to implement. This works well for SP small to medium scale deployments but it has its own limitations because the spark job and the TMS are tightly coupled. It becomes difficult to scale them independently. Also, if a Spark job fails, we need complex logic to detect it and retry. If the number of workloads spikes, the Spark driver must be able to keep up. So, these challenges point us toward the need for more decoupled submission model, which we'll discuss next. You might already be thinking, what happens if TMS goes down when workloads are being submitted? That's a great observation. So far we've been using implicit cues for workload submission which are not fault tolerant. If TMS crashes it is difficult to track and restart mix missed workloads without writing complex logic to identify them. A more robust solution is to adopt a producer consumer pattern which I'm sure most of you are already aware of. In this pattern, TMS acts as the producer placing workloads onto a central queue while Spark jobs act as the consumers pulling workloads from that queue. This approach decouples the control plane from the execution plane in which increases fault tolerance and makes the system more resilient. Another benefit is that it allows allows us to um allows the Spark jobs to eagerly pull from the workload Q meaning that jobs can be picked up quickly whenever it's whenever they are available reducing the idle time of both Spark jobs and the PMS system and also improving the resource utilization. However, we still need to ensure the prioritization and workload isolation we talked about earlier, which means maintaining multiple cues per catalog, per workload type, and per security profile. So, the obvious downside here is that number of cues can grow out of hand very quickly. So, we need to design our queuing strategy very carefully to avoid complexity in this model. Fortunately, many TMS jobs are item potential. For instance, running a rewrite operation on an already optimal table is mostly a no. This means that our system needs to needs to do at least once delivery guarantee which is sufficient for in our case. So off-the-shelf systems like Kafka and ready streams already support this kind of producer consumer model with the use of consumer groups. In our case, the spark jobs themselves are consumer groups. So we can start one consumer group per queue and then have the spark jobs pick up from the queue efficiently. Earlier we we asked a key question how many spark jobs should we start? So in the design which did not have the queue the number of spark jobs was static often determined by a simple curistic for example how many tables are scheduled for processing. But now that we have introduced a centralized queue, we can scale Spark jobs dynamically. We can start with just a few Spark jobs and because they eagerly pull workloads from the queue, we can observe the queue length and the wait time and scale up the Spark jobs as needed. This lets us launch new jobs only when necessary rather than committing resources up front. And within the Spark job, we can also take advantage of dynamic resource allocation, which allows Spark to automatically scale executors based on the job's runtime needs. So this combination of dynamic Spark job scaling and DRA within a Spark job helps us maintain lean and responsive system that makes efficient use of compute resources. That wraps our section on the core challenges and strategies. Now I want to switch over to another critical aspect of any large scale system including TMS observability. We think of this in two dimensions. Userfacing observability and system level observability. Let's start with the user side. The goal of TMS is to keep tables in optimal health. So naturally users want visibility into questions like how healthy is my table? Are there any tables that need immediate attention? If I update a configuration or schedule, how do I ensure that it's taking effect? And from an administrative perspective, it's also important to track who created or modified schedules for audits and accountability. To support these needs, the system should persist the life cycle of every workload and every change to the system in a durable store and expose APIs for users and other tools to query their status. Additionally, it's helpful to have a notification mechanism. Keep in mind that we are talking about tens of thousands of workloads um running every day. This can quickly become very very noisy. Users generally care about overall table health but not individual job runs. So a good strategy is to summarize issues in user friendly way. For example, this table has not been compacted over a month. It's a good notification to send. This kind of proactive digestible insight enables users to focus on what matters and not dig through thousands of job logs. In addition to userf facing metrics, TMS service itself needs to store uh internal observability to stay performant and reliable. One of the core service level goals is to minimize workload failures across the system. Tracking this over time helps us identify systemic issues, misconfigurations or infrastructure bottlenecks. It's also important to monitor efficiency metrics. For example, how much data is being compacted versus the resources consumed to do so. This enables TMS to make informed cost versus performance trade-offs. Another key area to track is scaling behavior. How often are we scaling the Spark jobs? Are scaling decisions happening too aggressively or too late? And finally, tracking metrics on number of Spark jobs and execute to usage help us understand overall system utilization and identify any opportunities for tuning or optimizing our system. Now the ice rest catalog plays a very critical role in enabling building a table man scalable table management system. We want our TMS to work in a catalog agnostic way and rest catalog enables us to abstract the catalog implementation from the service. Also, we can extend rest catalog to include um policies. With the extended support for policies, the rest catalog can serve as a central source of truth for managing table management configurations, especially in environments where table owners are actually different from administrators um of the table. With this policy support, press catalog can host scheduling rules, arbback or access controls and any other additional table metadata needed for optimizing our tables. This allows all key metadata including permissions and maintenance policies to in one to live in one place enabling centralized governance. It also opens up doors for some new features like tagdriven policies where the catalog itself can apply certain uh filters based on tags instead of DMS actually doing it on the server side. In the future, best catalogs could also store certain table level metadata useful for uh table maintenance jobs which would provide richer observability features directly from the source. While the open source respect doesn't yet include all of these features, extending it extending it in this direction makes it a very powerful component into table management service. So wrapping up my section here, if you are considering building something like this today, I think the three questions we should start with is can your infrastructure tolerate shared spark jobs or do you need complete isolation? What level of metadata health does your organization need? Do you have a way to circulate stable health to end users? That brings us to the to the end of our section on challenges, architecture choices, and strategies for building scalable DMS. We have talked about how to structure workloads, isolate tenants, scale Spark jobs, and integrate with Ice Bess catalog. Hope this was useful to you. Next, I'll hand over to Kupia who talk talk you through some of exciting enhancements to explore including event-driven execution and smart resource server scheduling. Thanks for listening. Over to you. Thanks Anura for covering the challenges in TMS and also covering the scalability and uh scaling and scheduling strategies that can be used. So uh let's discuss about some of the enhancements that we can make to this uh table management service. Uh so there are two main categories of enhancements that I will be discussing event based enhancement and metrics based enhancement. Event based enhancement like instead of uh uh Anura can you move to the next slide? Sorry. Uh so in in events based enhancements instead of relying on static schedules from the policy store we can leverage realtime events from our data injection pipelines and metadata catalogs to trigger the maintenance operations. The the approach enables a more responsive and intelligent management system directly addressing the dynamic nature of iceberg tables. Amongst others, we prioritize four core event types. Injection volume, injection count, small file count, and metadata changes. These events directly correlate with the need for compaction, snapshot expiry, and orphan file removal. By capturing and reacting to these signals, we can automate critical maintenance tasks with precision. This leads to optimized resource allocation, reduced latency, and improved overall system performance. This event-based architecture enables a paradigm shift from reactive to proactive maintenance. We are building a system that ensures continuous optimization of iceberg tables. Next slide. So now let's talk about matrix-driven enhancements. Automating these tasks isn't enough. True optimization requires a deeper understanding of the systems behavior. We need to move beyond the fixed schedules and towards a more dynamic and datadriven approach. This is where granular metrics becomes crucial. It forms the foundation of a datadriven feedback loop. By understanding the metrics, we gain insights needed to make the informed decisions. By applying machine learning models training trained on historical spark job statistics, we can forecast the resource requirements based on the injection rate, data volume, and meta changes. This enables dynamic resource allocation, scaling up only when necessary and scaling down to minimize id idle capacity. We must also consider query patterns. Which tables are hot? Which maintenance operation impacts critical analytical queries? By integrating query pattern analysis, we can prioritize maintenance tasks that deliver the highest performance gains. Matrix-driven approach is the key to unlocking the full potential of iceberg at scale. Uh, next slide on. While external table management system offers significant advantages for managing iceberg at scale, optimizing the core iceberg engine itself presents another crucial avenue for enhancement, particularly concerning conflict resolution during concurrent write operation in environments characterized by high injection rates, frequent updates or multiple concurrent maintenance task like compaction. This is very helpful and there are already uh activities in the open source in this direction. Next slide. So we envision an architecture with event-driven triggers reacting instantly to ingestion and metadata changes and seamlessly integrating with metrics. Furthermore, internal iceberg enhancements for conflict resolution will ensure efficient high concurrency operations. This holistic design incorporating event- based responsiveness, intelligent resource management and optimized iceberg internals directly tackles the scalability pitfalls we which we highlighted in the first slide. The result a cap a the system capable of truly autonomous operation minimizing overhead maximizing performance and adapting intelligently to the ever evolving demands of your data lake. Uh next slide. So to conclude we uh we saw the considerations for building a table management system, the engine to use for building such a system, the scaling and scheduling strategies and observability and debug debugability aspects of it and rest catalog uh integrations for the table management service and various enhancements that we could make on top of it. Ultimately, managing iceberg at scale demands intelligence and not just automation. By focusing on event-driven responsiveness, databacked decisions and pushing the limits of iceberg core capabilities, we can transform our data links into truly agile and efficient assets. The journey to scalable iceberg management is ongoing and I hope this talk provided valuable insights into that path. Thank you. Thank you for everyone for attending this talks. Fantastic. Thank you so much. That was really interesting. And we've got quite a few questions as well. So um I'll just pose these to you. There's a there's one with um four votes there. It says, "Have you measured costsaving of multiplexing versus one operation table per Spark app? Is this order of 2x or 10x for example? Do you want to take it? Because we started off with um we started off with one spark job per table. Um and I I think we didn't we don't have any concrete um measurements like 2x or 10x but definitely the bootstrapping of spark job itself takes um a lot of time and we reduce that latency quite a bit when after sharing the spark jobs. Yeah, just to add that to that like when when when we are scheduling this table management operations on top of a database that contains like thousands of tables like I think where the security credential security boundaries and storage credentials are going to be the same. Uh a single uh the same spark job could handle multiple tables uh and instead of having to start thousands of spark job the same jobs could as well handle the tables when uh uh the security boundaries are same. So that that is the reason we uh we took the decision of multiplexing and and we didn't find a real uh benefit of having to start a a separate uh spark job for every table. So that was the rational behind having to multiplex. Thank you. Um and also this one's got three likes. It says how are the TMS workloads triggered on schedule or event driven? How does the TMS track spark app state and make sure the app status is properly detected? Yeah, I'll take this one. I think um we have we have both schedule and some form of event driven as well. Uh but yeah, schedule is schedule jobs is important because we don't want the cluster to uh be busy when there are some critical jobs uh running. So basically we time it out um so we let you schedule them uh and some event event driven uh as well like uh we have events sending from our catalog and then that would trigger um spark jobs. I think the second part of your question is how does CMS track spark app state? Uh we actually that's the slide where we mentioned the rest catalog. So there is constant communication going on between the spark job and our table management service. So spark because there's a rest server on both sides. Uh basically the spark jobs keep keeps updating the status uh into our service uh as the workload is workload is going through. Does that answer your question? Yeah, I think so. That's great. Thank you. Um and the next one we've got here is by table health do you also include completeness and timelines or engineering metrics like storage and cost? Uh yeah I mean uh one aspect of it is uh I I'll take this question uh and one aspect of it is uh like uh we have metrics around how much of storage space this is uh the particular table is actually consuming. For example, when uh I'll take the specific example of HDFS where when when there are two so many files that are being generated but and if it's stressing out the name node that is a kind of metric uh that uh actually implies about the table health and that is also that also comes to the part where I was telling about the event driven and metrics driven. So uh where we get the metrics of how how how much space this how much space and total number of files that table is contributing to and also this could also be an event that that can that can be uh emitted to the table management system to keep the uh table healthy. Uh yeah that is that on okay thank you. Um I think we've got time for maybe a couple more. So this one is when rewriting data files are you doing any kind of intelligent cherrypicking of files partitions to rewrite in order to save resources. They've given a couple of examples here like merging data files based on minimum or maximum statistics overlap where tables have a sort of configured sorry have sort configured or a level tiered compaction of new data files based on size. Uh I can take this one. Um we actually don't do anything um intelligent other than what I the iceberg procedure provides. Uh but we do we do enable um the partial commits uh basically so that we don't want to do uh everything all over again. Um and also most of these as I mentioned that most of the things are are ident. So if you if you do if you run the rewrite data files on an optimal table already where file sizes are already optimal it's it's basically in no off um what do you mean by uh oh I lost the question um minmax statistics uh not sure I understood what that means but I'll answer the next one I think one thing we we we can do is uh look at uh if if we if the most of the table is ingested on new partitions and if the use case does not touch any old partitions or there are no merge operations and stuff like that, we could actually um only work on the partitions that were modified since the last last run. So that's that's something that um can improve the um efficiency of the system. Ju just to add there like I think uh uh the users I mean uh when we are handling at the level of uh database and catalog uh we we also want the users to be able to uh uh configure these uh actions uh because some of the uh tables uh the users know some of the tables uh nature. So we provide levers to actually be able to configure uh these things and also uh we and like Anurra mentioned u it's an incremental thing where they it runs on a schedule so it becomes a no when a partition is already uh uh compacted uh so uh yeah that that is uh that and that the the problem only uh the issue comes when the when it's being compacted Or when the operation is being performed for the first time that is when we uh ask the users to actually do where in the resource requirements etc are completely uh uh off as compared to doing it in incremental fashion. uh we have uh we should provide an uh ability to in the t table management service uh to provide I mean to trigger these ad hoc runs which uh which is uh an outlier corresponding uh uh as in comparison to incremental runs. Okay thank you. Uh so we've got five minutes maybe one or two more. So uh one here think is needed for real time use cases right so spark will work question mark yeah I think spark will work uh only thing is the scheduling has to be very aggressive for real time schedule we have we have tables that um flink writes into uh but the rewrite operations from spark uh work work fine they just have to be very frequent like run every half an hour or so something Okay. And uh is the how is the ML forecasting model integrated? Yeah, I mean this has not been uh done yet. These are some things that we want to do. Uh so uh yeah, I mean uh these are uh like I mentioned these are all enhancements that we want to make on top we will want to make on top of table barebones uh table management service. Okay. Uh, and there's another one here about think. So, I don't know if this is if you've already answered this with the last question, but it says, "Do you think for real time scale using more optimal spark app state will operate with Spark, but might cause some issues scaling up? Yeah. Yeah, I can take that. I think Flink is uh Yeah, I think Flink is also a good good option. But as Karupia mentioned in his slides uh we are looking at uh full support for all the um table management operations and currently we found spark was the most up to date um in in that but flink uh or even uh the new spark connect is something that we want to explore as well. So most of the challenges in in this talk are not specific to any engine but uh these would have to be um the considerations irrespective of what engine we choose in the back end. Okay, great. Thank you. Um so we've just got a couple of minutes left really. So, I'll just wrap up now, but I believe you're going to reach out to anyone who hasn't had their questions answered live um through the uh event app um uh through the event through the community. So, they will reach out to you directly. Um but thank you so much. Uh that's all we have time for now. So, thank you Anra and Karupa. Uh as a reminder, all sessions will be available on demand within one hour after the event finishes. Um so, thank you very much. Thank you everybody. Thanks everyone.
