Title: Neelesh Salian – Floe: Policy-Based Table Maintenance for Apache Iceberg #bbuzz
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UN44R8jYSXk
Upload date: 20260609
Video ID: UN44R8jYSXk

=== Description ===

More: https://2026.berlinbuzzwords.de/sessions/Floe-Policy-Based-Table-Maintenance-for-Apache-Iceberg
 
Speaker: Neelesh Salian
 
Iceberg maintenance procedures work. Orchestrating them across hundreds of tables is the problem. Floe is an open-source system that treats maintenance as policy: glob patterns, schedules, and health-driven triggers that gate operations on real table metrics. Supports 7 catalogs, executes via Spark or Trino.
 
Every Iceberg table needs maintenance, but catalogs don't execute and engines don't orchestrate. Teams end up with scripts that become DAGs that become technical debt. Nobody knows which tables are healthy, which are overdue, or what ran last.

Floe is an open-source, policy-based maintenance system for Iceberg. Define rules with glob patterns, schedules, and health-driven triggers that gate operations based on real table metrics: small file percentage, snapshot count, delete file ratio, and partition skew. Priority resolves conflicts when patterns overlap. A maintenance debt score ranks tables by urgency so the most critical work runs first within your resource budget.

Floe connects to REST, Polaris, Lakekeeper, Gravitino, DataHub, Hive Metastore, and Nessie catalogs, then delegates execution to Spark or Trino. A built-in dashboard shows table health trends, operation history, and policy coverage.

This talk covers the policy model, health-driven maintenance planning, and a live demo.
 
###

Follow us on Social Media and join the Community!

Mastodon: https://floss.social/@berlinbuzzwords
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/showcase/berlin-buzzwords
Website: https://berlinbuzzwords.de
Mail: info@berlinbuzzwords.de

Berlin Buzzwords is an event by Plain Schwarz – https://plainschwarz.com

=== Transcript ===

So first of all, thank you for having me. Uh I wasn't able to travel the Berlin, but uh I'm glad to be part of the conference and uh thank you for allowing me to speak here uh and accommodating me remotely. Um I worked on iceberg for a while and uh more recently I started getting back to the ecosystem and to learn that I started building things and what came out of that building was flow uh which is a policy based uh table maintenance for Apache iceberg. Uh my name is Neslesh and I'm a software engineer. I contribute to iceberg uh and I've been part of data platform teams in different companies and I want to talk to you about this open source project that I built today. So I'll I'll go over these topics uh one by one. Um first of all I want to start by giving you an idea of what an iceberg table looks like and what table maintenance actually means and how it actually scales or what the challenges we'll face as an organization. uh I've personally hit this in one almost two organizations myself and so this would fall in line with what a typical organization sees as well. Uh I want to introduce flow and uh help you understand the high level of where it fits in the architecture and the grander ecosystem. Um so it can help you sort of frame it correctly in terms of where where it fits in the in the grand scheme of things. Uh the policy model is key to the core of flow where it actually governs how you declare maintenance as a policy and specify configuration so that you can actually make these things more declarative. There's a healthdriven aspect that I introduced as well as sort of the second uh half of this where the tables that need maintenance will be driven by their health metrics and their metadata rather than pure and scheduling. And finally, I've recorded a demo just to just to make sure it runs. And I'll show you an example of how an end to-end setup looks like with a catalog and an engine to drive this home. So what does maintenance look like for an iceberg table in general? And you'll be you've worked with iceberg tables. You've had tables populate and have uh sort of need regular maintenance and cleanup. I want to go through that concept a little bit before I sort of jump into flow itself. So when you think of iceberg underneath the hood this is what a typical table would look like. Uh right from the top you have the catalog that stores the latest metadata file as a pointer and that would be the sort of entry point for all iceberg tables catalog manages discoverability and also make sure sort of transactions and sort of autonomous city is maintained. The metadata files actually hold a lot of the schema, the partition spec and contain the snapshot log that will get produced in terms of every commit. The snapshots themselves point to a manifest list manifest files which also track the data files path for path for path format size partition and column stats. All of these sort of fit in correctly as the engine tries to read a lot of the files and so these intermediate steps help it spoon and get to the right data files and delete files eventually which live in your storage and that's where all the data lies and so to get to the most efficient way of navigating to these data files and delete files this sort of tree structure is what a nice table goes through. So maintenance is broken down at least with four options. Uh I want to cover each of them and tell you what each of them does. Uh they're aptly named so it's not too hard to figure out. The rewrite data files as you can tell is essentially combining smaller files into larger ones. So there might be a occasion where your table is getting a lot of commits, a lot of data getting put in and maybe the files are small and it's more frequent. it's better to go back and maintain them and sort of combine them based on certain strategies like bin pack sort and zorder uh that are available and uh this will help essentially reduce the number of files. So imagine instead of reading 100 files you'll read one. Uh it also handles deletes and also merges the deletes in the data. So you don't have to reconcile that but you will get sort of the final lower uh lower bounds of the number of files that will help you query better. Again next to uh expire snapshots which essentially means removing older snapshots from the metadata log. Now this could be uh things that are older based on your configuration or the age or you can even mod uh manipulate it to be uh retaining n uh snapshots. But what this does is it cascadely cleans up the manifest list uh manifests and data files that are only referenced by the expired ones. So you don't want them in the storage system. So you actually clean that up. But again where it matters uh in the in the query engine and actually making sure this works is every commit leads to one snapshot. And so without expiry you might end up having these snapshots grow. And some some users I've seen keep a lot of snapshots to make sure that you have accurate history and go back. But at some point of time it's sort of uh better to clean those up uh as you go along in the journey of your life cycle of your table. The next is rewrite manifest which again uh means combining the same concept goes with data files but here in this you're combining smaller manifest files into fewer larger ones and sort of uh these track again the data file path the stat stats and the status of what the what the actual um operation was like and again this where this why it matters is every query starts reading these manifests and so the lower bound of manifest as it has to read. That's that's really better for it rather than having to do multiple reads across the across the board. So here again, you're reducing the number of manifests that a query engine has to go and plan for. And finally, delete orphan files. Now, orphan files are essentially files that are ref left in this in the storage that are unreferenced. Um these could happen in the occasion of like failed Spark jobs, writing partial files, writing failed compaction, uh incomplete maybe a snapshot expiry job failed and you'll leave a lot of these uh buffed in your storage which doesn't get referenced and they're not part of the metadata. So there's no reason to keep them around. So that's why instead of adding more storage costs, you end up it's better to actually have these cleaned up going forward. So you're you're a bit more cleaner and and not leaving back a lot of different files that are dreferenced going forward. So every table will need this kind of maintenance as it grows. Like usually when you start with an iceberg table, you'll end up continuing it, right? You'll populate it with data, your queries will keep uh going on, your business users will uh will expand. And so as the table progresses in its life cycle, you have small files accumulate, snapshots get piled up, you have orphan files, manifest files. So essentially all those symptoms that I spoke about in the maintenance, those will happen in the grand scheme of things when you maintain it ice table for the longest time. And so they there needs to be maintenance at the at the core. But in my in my practice and generally to speak that catalogs don't do this execution for maintenance like they are the ones that hold all the metadata and give you the information for the table but you need some sort of way to understand how maintenance needs to be done at a per table level and the engines that you have don't actually orchestrate. They will do the action that you tell them to do in terms of those maintenance operations. those those boil down to like let's say spark actions you will say hey spark can you rewrite this data files of this table and spark will just do as you say and you based on the configs that you set but it won't orchestrate it won't have any sort of intelligence or understand the table characteristics that's not in either of these places that you can codify and say oh I need maintenance only based on certain characteristics of the table and so as as I've worked with iceberg in the past and as a uh towards the end of last year I saw this trajectory happen inevitably uh and I'm sure it might be happening in other companies as well. So the at the beginning when you think of maintenance of a table you'll start with a cron job you'll say I want to run this at a cadence I want to run this every day every hour based on my table's characteristics and that will be working great for the most part and then you'll read that to multiple namespaces cataloges multiple tables you'll say oh each of oh I this other table doesn't need this one schedule this other table needs every day or every week and so you'll end up in more scripts in the same regard and then somewhere down the line you'll say let me orchestrate it let me write it into the tag let me create a bit more streamlined way of retrying and adding a little bit more bounds and scheduling it so I have a view of how things are working seam but hyperbole speaking this will end up in technical debt like you'll end up building a lot of this across the business it might scale for a tiny team but as your orgs grow as adoption with iceberg grows this will end leading to somewhat technical debt. And I'll explain in in a bit because once the once the um once you set these things at a at a scheduled level, you don't you don't get to answer these questions like you knowing which tables are healthy, which tables are actually needing the maintenance. Some tables may not be uh actually been worked on or data coming into them, but you don't know for sure to say that this table is actually needing maintenance at this point. you don't know which are overdue. So let's say a table got a lot of data over the past day and you've not tracked it and let's say the chron job failed. You have no idea to go back and say, "Oh, you know what? I need I missed that table yesterday. The run didn't pass. I need to go back and do it." And the one the one mistake that I've seen done in the past as well that painting every table with the same brush essentially every table being represented with either a schedule or a single way of doing things because every table can be different. It can align towards different business domain. It can track different aspects and real world entities. And so they might have different ingestion patterns, size and volume. And I alluded to this in the uh in first part of the talk that you might get more data, you might get less data. It all depends on what the table was tracking. And so what what happens because of this and this unique characteristics by table every team starts building their own version of this uh as you see it they say oh my constraints are different my uh bounds are different injection volume and so every team starts building their own version of this kind of scripting and so I thought to myself when I was doing this it was started off as an experiment but can I declare the intent I want for maintenance and that was sort of the core or question I was building against. I saw a couple of talks, one design and I started playing around to to realize where where this would lead and that that's where I started building and this is the sort of product that you see here. It's called flow which is uniquely a flow is a sheet of floating ice that was the most unique name in the iceberg that I could find at the time. But uh at a very high level uh what flow does is gives you the opportunity to declare policies against tables that would define the operation and the characteristics that they need to be uh adeared to. There are healthdriven triggers uh that are inflow that will only allow the execution of the operation based on the health of the table. There's a scoring that I've added as well to to sort of in in a way gamify or in a way quantify the health of a table itself. So you know that this table is being worked on based on its scoring and the architecture itself is sort of decoupled in the way that you can plug in your catalog and your compute engine. uh you can bring any catalog and a combination of one of the two engines that it supports currently and that's how the the design is laid out and I built a UI so that it's easier to v visualize these things uh as you administer or as you maintain these tables because in a catalog world you're looking at thousands of tables in the long term uh so it's better to visualize this and see what's happening and get access to logs the operations on the right you see are the same ones I spoke spoke about the those are the same four that are supported. Um rewrite, expire, orphan files, delete and then you have the rewrite manifest. So at a very high level uh this is what the architecture flow looks like. It's a web service uh has its own persistence either in memory or uh relational database and it can plug into each of these cataloges and the execution engines. So when flow receives your sort of policy against a table, it will and when it's ready to schedule, it'll ask the question to the catalog to inspect the metadata and see whether this table is needing maintenance or not. And I'll go through the steps that it evaluates in. But roughly towards the end, if if it's determined that this table does need maintenance, it will trigger it based on the execution engine that is configured. And so it'll essentially pass on a spark job or trino uh SQL statement to say hey run this particular operation on this particular table. So I I mentioned this earlier. This is the this is the heart of it. This is the policy model that governs and allows you to declare these uh maintenance operations based on the characteristics of a table. And I'll go through this model and how you can actually uh put in the uh the policy for a specific table or multiple tables uh at once. So there was a lot of configurations as as as I showed a bit earlier in terms of each of the operations that are available. So to codify that I just put all of those configurations into the policy module and a simp simple policy example on the left is let's say you declare it based for the uh table pattern of prod events and you assign a priority you assign a name to be make it unique and you want one operation that is rewrite data files the strategy and the target file size is set and there's a schedule that you want to set in terms of the interval of when you want to want to be run. And the the nice part here is that it allows glob patterns which allow you to do it either based on the entire catalog, the name space, exactly one table, or even other specific wild cards or even all the tables at once. So that's the table pattern that's that's extensive enough that you can apply to not just one but multiple tables if they share similar characteristics. This again is very userdriven and use case driven. So, but it has the ability to give you the ability to declare it across multiple tables if needed. And there's a priority assigned to each of these uh policies and there's a resolution logic that I'll share in a few slides. That's where the scheduler will make the decision of which one actually wins and which one actually gets to run in the event of a clash. So the schedule model is also declarative enough that it gives you enough options. So you can declare it based on intervals. So you can declare chron expressions. Uh start and end time. Some teams may want oh I only want to run it on weekdays versus weekends. Uh there's timeouts you can set and toggle with enabled or deleting. So let's say if a table doesn't get used a lot, you can just disable the policy for it and then nothing will run on top of it going forward. And you can always go back and tweak it and enable it again. And so the execution check itself will make sure to confirm with all these properties and see is it enabled, is it within the window, is it allowed and whatever you've configured is going to be assessed before the decision to run it now is being made by the scheduleuler itself. so that whatever you set is honored but and it's checking all of these parameters at once so that you're actually getting things executed in the exact time that you want. Now extending that initial policy across not just one operation but multiple operations. Here's an example of let's say you wanted to do it for your analytics tables and you want all maintenance. You want all of these operations. I've covered two here because of the size of putting these in. But essentially, this can expand all the four operations that I spoke about. Uh this covers rewrite data files for now and expire snapshots with their own specific schedule. You might want to expire snapshots at a different time versus actually rewriting files at a little um at at a different cadence as well. So that gives you the flexibility to say, oh, I want to rewrite the files which are more frequent and the commits a little bit more later. So that gives you again flexibility as a user to configure this based on your injection patterns and the speed at which data comes in uh to that table and how how business critical it is at some point in time. There's additional trigger conditions that I'll talk about. Those are metrics driven but those allow you to add additional sort of gating functions to make sure that you're running based on the conditions you declared and not just running it at cron. So that if these pass if there are ready to schedule there's additional gating functions to make sure that you're actually running based on metrics not just running based on chron. So that's the latter part where I'll cover a lot of the help portion and this is where you'll actually introduce them in the policy module. So I spoke about the the tiebreaker logic of the priority. So I sort of gified this in a in a little bit and I call it specificity which essentially is adding a score to a policy and I don't know if this is foolproof but the idea is that if you exactly specify a catalog or namespace or a table you get more points and if it's generic if it's a glob then you end up getting lower points and so that's where the priority order is. I haven't tested this greatly enough. Like it works mostly, but I think this is one way to sort of get past the priority clashing that can happen in an in an event of combining and matching uh priorities that that are declared per policy. So hopefully this scales in the long term, but if it does not, I'm I'm curious to see how it breaks. But this is one way I thought of uh sort of gamifying it to give the the winner of the priority a little bit more advantage. So the the what you what you just saw was sort of the first version of flow that I pushed out and um it happened stance at that time there was an iceberg meetup that happened during the same time and so I had the opportunity to talk to a lot of users uh initially uh who were dealing with similar problems of maintaining systems and the thing that came out of that discussion with users was uh can we be a little bit more intelligent or uh be more metric driven in terms of the maintenance and not just pure cron. And so I went back and started packing things in to see whether we can leverage the already existing metadata. So the that the operations that we actually run are datadriven and not just actually running at a cron because most of the time you'll end up doing these things at a cadence but they may not be needed and so going with that sort of assumption that do you need to run the maintenance or you're just running because you have set a schedule that's the question I started asking and that's where I started building this portion where uh it's more health driven directly uh based on the metadata and the the table. So there's a concept I added that is called health report which essentially is it's not that it's not that unique. It's essentially pulling all the metadata that is available free from the catalog and I've categorized them based on their sort of higher level characteristics where they where they fall under in terms of concepts in terms of snapshot data files the manifest leads and partitions and these metadata are these metadata pieces are available in the catalog. So, might as well use it. I think uh one of the challenges was building this help report and keeping it consistent, but it is available so that you can take advantage and make this a little bit more metric driven than uh than purely Chrome. So, I I took those metrics and I had to assign them some sort of symptom, right? So, you're looking at metrics, but you don't know what exactly is wrong. So going from the metrics to actually classifying them as issues and problems that are very specific to each category. That's where the the metrics become more meaningful. So you collected a bunch of metrics but you say oh what's the use of it in terms of is it indicating something or not. So in this case I've attached it to actual quantifiable issues like is it too many small files? Is it a high higher file count? If it's the table is empty stale metadata. There's different categories here that are assigned in terms of severity level and issues. Now, severity levels is actually what what governs a lot of the uh decision to run. So, if it's a critical uh issue, uh I I'll talk about it more in in the death scoring portion, but the critical issues are served first, the warning second, and the info, which is almost like a no- there's no action needed. Those are the ones. This is the ordering of things in terms of the issues that are visible in the table. So this is tying in the metrics directly to an actual symptom and actual problem in the table and then giving it those critical levels so that sorry the severity level so that a decision can be made whether they have to run or not. So the depth score is the quantifiable way of putting those severity levels. So I've given them 10x the points for a critical issue, 3x for warning and 1x for this. And this allows to sort of arrange the ordering of the uh tables that are about to be scheduled for running based on their help. So the sickest tables somewhat run first and the more critical so they can actually be utilizing the critical budget that you have because resourcing is also a thing, right? If you run tables that don't need maintenance, don't have any issues, you're essentially wasting compute and so sometimes it may end up even being a no-up and so uh you want to guard against doing something that may not be fruitful. And so how it works is you collect the metadata that's available in the catalog. You evaluate against the thresholds that you can set. You can set these sort of trigger conditions that you see be uh in the slides before. It computes the debt score and it sorts the tables based on their help. And the reports I generated, I mentioned the challenge was just keeping them pulling pulling them each time in the UI as well and even during uh decision- making. So I've cached them with a fivem minute uh TTL. Uh it's it's in there. It's not maybe not the robust, but that's one way I got around the issue of just sort of persistence and keeping it a little bit more fresh. Uh but this is how it works. like you get that score and that's where the decision is like this helps make the decision like I said the condition based triggers are the ones that actually help you in terms of setting these thresholds and the decision is made ba made based on the thresholds you set whether they're going past this or not. So if there's no conditions that are set and it's purely chron you didn't set anything beyond it the evaluation plug goes like this. So you're setting no conditions, you always trigger. If it's a critical pipeline, it's force triggered. It's it's beyond the control like you need to run this. If it's not within the bounds of the scheduling, then you block it, evaluate the conditions against the actual health of the table. And then it checks whether all the conditions are met or some of them are met. And then you have some knobs towards the left uh that allow you to tweak this and like keep the trigger logic on or or and this is kind of like evaluate all the decisions or some of them so that you make sure that you're running based on actual triggers. So where does this lead to internally is like it all comes together in this sort of maintenance planner which essentially maps the uh health issues directly to the operations. So now you've collected the metrics, you've made sure to check whether a table has an issue or not. You've assigned severity levels and you've seen that oh this is a health signal that is passing and it's mapping to one of these operations that we have available. So in the first version without the planner you would just run it with all four uh operations every cycle whatever is configured in the policy and even if nothing is needed you would still run no operations. then that's the risk. But with the planner, it becomes a little bit more selective that the operations are configured and only the ones with the health issues that are raised to the point of severity or uh criticality are the ones that are run. And so again, you can play around with these configs based on your characteristics, but with the planner, you have a sort of second level guard to to prevent things from just going based on pure chron. So again giving you the full sort of way of how this goes. So you start you've already declared policies based on the tables that you have. You made sure that these are in place in the ecosystem. The first layer actually triggers and says oh does this table actually need to run at all? So it's looking at the policy. It's saying oh I need to run this at a certain time but does it need to actually run at all? So the decision in the planner is you you made sure that you've checked all these metrics that come through. The health report has checked uh the uh severity levels and you've actually seen whether this table really needs to run. And then once you make that decision, you just hand it off to the execution engine to run the operation. And in the demo, you'll see where where these operations actually get executed. But all this all flow does after this point is just hand it to the uh configured execution engine to say hey run this operation for me for this table that I have. And one thing I added also is an audit log so that you as a user are aware that a table is being operated upon only because of a certain symptom. So you'll see something like this in the log messages to indicate this table was run because it crossed the threshold small path. So that documented reasoning allows you to go back and look to see why operations did happen. So give you gives yourself an auditing of the operations as you can see uh going beyond just pure execution. So uh coming back to sort of the flow and how it supports different uh you've seen the architecture earlier that I showed you uh it shows all these cataloges that are supported which are rest based most of them but there other cataloges like polaris uh lakeer gravitino data hub they have their own sort of management layer off and uh how they manage credentials and so that's that part is sort of different between each of them they're somewhat principally the same but they all fall under the iceberg rest spec and they adhere to the IRC um uh way of doing things and there's other cataloges like hive metas store and nessie as well that are supported um towards the right you see the execution engines initially I had spark in mind but getting spark running embedded in flow didn't seem like the best way to do things and I worked with VB in the past that acts as a clean job server so you can submit the jobs and actually send it to a uh um a job server and that'll pass it on to the underlying compute which can usually be like a cluster and it'll run there and trino's also available that has all these operations to run um one oper one SQL statement per uh table is how I've designed it and the quick start guide if you download the repo you'll get all of these examples and I'll run them in the demo one of them but you'll see all of these as you can as you open up the make file and uh you can run them each of them is almost a full setup that runs these things and uh allows you to see how operations can happen in the UI as well. So a little quick uh overview of like what's available in the dashboard. You'll see it in the demo, but I just wanted to capture this in the slides as well that you'll see a dashboard that comes up that covers all of the sort of bird's eye view of uh everything you have in flow in terms of operations, in terms of most recent running and then each of these tabs can go one by one and you can see the policies that are declared for each table. You can see how what operations are actually declared in each policy, whether they're enabled or not, and the priority that you can set. And the operations tab will show you the most recent runs that happened in the specific uh in your job cycle. And you can you can filter them by statuses. Currently, it's all statuses, but you can go back and say, oh, which are the failed ones, which are the ones that are running, and uh which are the ones that are succeeded. And if you look at the tables tab, if you pop open a table that you've configured in your catalog, it populates from the catalog that's attached, you will see metrics like this. So it's essentially covers all of the metrics that the catalog gives us. And I just put it in UI to to be up up front. So you're aware of all the metrics that are given to you by them by the table itself. And you're uh this is visible to you as a user. So I'll I'll shift to a demo right now and I'll cover uh an example in the rest spec. Uh this is the rest catalog uh example that I want to run end to end to show you how things work. If you could switch to the demo. All right. So oh they jumped already. the the uh examples is what you see in terms of the uh available u uh examples for each catalog and engine and you can run those based on whichever you prefer. So some of you want to do Polaris or any other cataloges you can run that uh based on the examples and what this does is it's an end toend setup. I've put in spark containers that actually do the data sorry the I put table creation and data population. So a spark container is running amongst these to do all of that and give you that data to measure with so that you'll see all of this spinning up and there's a spark job that gets kicked off which will actually start doing all the table generation and um setup. So that was where uh a lot of the data will live and we'll attach policies to each of those tables and that's where we'll we'll see the triggering happen for each of those uh each of those operations for each of those tables. So again this is very simple as a docker setup and this can mimic a real world setup with different engines and uh cataloges. And now as this completed these are the four five tables that are created. you have policies that are declared against each of them and each of them uh might have one or more policy attached to it based on the wild card or uh glob patterns and I've added a scheduled policy as well that you will see that runs every minute but you can also trigger it manually based on the table and there's a trigger API that is that allows you to run things ad hoc. So we'll move over to the UI where uh I'll show you again the dashboard that I screenshotted earlier. So essentially this is the view that you get as a user. You will see this in the UI. This covers the quick quick action tab that will lead you to different places and the active policies what's running. And so let's look at the policies. So that that particular demo I kept it short but this combines all the tables and I've added individual policies and you'll see what's configured for each of them. Each of them will have their own parameters and the UI will show what's configured for each of those operations. Let's look at even a larger one that has all four configured which has all these parameters that you can see and you'll see them in the UI so you're aware of what you've set and so as I said there's a schedule test that's running it's running every minute and this is where it actually runs so it's running in levy and these are the these are the actions it's taken so these are the bytes it's rewritten and the other operation will be a noop so you're you're seeing essentially what uh what I mentioned earlier and The metrics again are captured after the job succeeds on the UI. So now we created those five tables, right? And so those are populated from the catalog itself. And so you're seeing all these tables that we created with the spark job. And the same UI essentially will hold all the metrics that uh that come from the catalog for each of them. And you're seeing these sort of conditions that you've set. And this is the health score that I mentioned that is currently green for that table. But in the event you want to run something, there's a trigger button that can actually help you kick it off more ad hoc. So you can run this whenever you need it based on you want to test something, you want to see if it's working or it's it's going to prompt you based on criticality as well. And so I want to go to the settings tab here as well where you can actually see how flow is configured in terms of the catalog that's configured the properties of that catalog what engine is currently being attached which is spark and the persistent store like I mentioned which was uh postgress here but it's an in-memory store as well is available if you want to test it locally and these are someuler settings that I've left in that you can tweak based on your need and that can adjust theuler based on your behavior And I want to go back to actually running a operation here which u is more manual and we'll see it getting triggered. So we can see this in the running. Uh so you're seeing this run in here. Uh it's very early so you're not getting a lot of the metrics. It's mostly post and you go back to Levy and you'll see one session per uh operation that's kicked off. So some of these might not have a lot of operations. You've seen zero there, but some of them do have a lot of metrics that are coming back based on the operations we did. And the same thing goes for Trino. I don't have it in the demo, but essentially one query per operation that is being run. And now once it's completed, you're coming back to the UI and it's seeing all the metrics that you can um that are populated for you. And so that's pretty much all I had. Like you can you can play around with this. It's in GitHub. So feel free to take it for a spin and run any of the examples uh as you need. Um so I'll I'll switch back to the slides. Okay. So just to wrap things up. I know we're almost at time and I don't want to keep you from having beer. Um so I want to talk about this is the policy module that is uh governing a lot of flow and all the glob patterns. Uh the health driven planning uh allows you to gate these things based on not just scheduling but also metadata and those architectures pluggable enough that you can bring in cataloges and comput engines and the UI is helpful for you to visualize things. And that's all that's all I had. Thank you for staying this long and um uh the code is up here. The documentation is up here. If we don't get to Q&A as much feel free to reach out to me after the talk as well and happy to answer any questions. So thank you. >> Thank you. >> Okay. Thank you Nlesh. So maybe someone has a question in the room. I will pass the mic. Uh thanks for that. That was super interesting. Um I may have missed this. I may may not have fully understood um part of how you were doing the organization of it. But when you were saying talking about the debt score at the end about the um health of maintenance, you were saying that you were you can prioritize by criticality of the um of of the issue type. I'm wondering can you also and this is where I may have misunderstood. Can you also rank by uh the table importance or how frequently a table is accessed um or the size of the table is from some other metadata source or is that sort of indirectly related to this for scheduling import I I I would say that's more implicit in terms of um criticality um the the frequency of the table and the size of the table that that may be something you can codify like you can choose what to rank it based on and what's more important because every table might not have the same sort of frequency it's being written in and also the the data. So ranking also depends on how frequent this table is populated but also based on other conditions of like we want this critical table to be maintained at all times. So I would say it's very I have a very boring answer. It's more it depends on the um the use case that each table is governed with. And so you can you can tweak these values based on the characteristics. >> Gotcha. Thank you. I do actually have another question. Um >> Sure. >> Uh you mentioned the the cataloges that you were supporting. Is there um any um interest for support of Unity catalog when they uh bring support for writing iceberg uh down the line? >> Uh I didn't think about it. Uh but sure maybe someday. uh I haven't uh I haven't given it much thought but yeah I initially had a couple of other cataloges like glue uh at least in the in the picture but I just didn't have time to do justice enough for testing so I kept it uh as much as I could reasonably test but yeah sure someday uh down the line if Unity uh does have entire support and it's open source but I would be happy to take a look at it. >> Brilliant. Thanks. >> Okay, thank you. Any other question in the room? Yes. >> Hey, uh thanks for the talk. Um are you targeting mostly like a lakehouse administrator? So how would that look like if you have uh like a larger team? Let's say you have like 30 teams that are interacting with a lakehouse and you have a role based access control and um you wouldn't want to have like one single instance or role accessing or or maintaining all the tables. Yeah, I did think about off and uh but I didn't put it in. But in the long term, if you would deploy this in an organization, you would be bound to arbback or Aback policies that allow you to govern these things. It might live at the administrative level. It might live as individual access. that I see this being more as a highle control plane across the lakehouse that you can maintain as a team, maintain as administrator, whatever your permission hierarchy is. Uh so we're sort of aligned to that. Um some folks have devops and administrators who manage this or it could be them. Some teams are much more nimble. They can they can manage them themselves. So it's very open. I I'm not too sort of deterministic there. But I kept I did work on a little bit of the off. I I wasn't too happy with it at the at the current stage. So it's it's bits and pieces in there. But uh I did leave support for eventual adding um governance portions, but every org is different to be to be fair. Uh it's at some point of time it will it will scale to what an org looks like and I've kept it open enough that it's based on whatever your permission hierarchy looks like. >> Awesome. Thank you. Okay. So, thank you again Lesh for creating and presenting this great tool. And uh so with this we are closing our first day of Berlin buzzword of this year. So I invite you all to a refreshment downstairs and otherwise see you tomorrow. Bye-bye. >> Thank you.
